[PAGE 1]

HSBC Holdings plc
Accounts 2024

[PAGE 2]

Opening up a world of opportunity
Our ambition is to be the preferred international
financial partner for our clients.
Our purpose, ambition and values reflect our
strategy and support our focus on execution.
Read more on our values and strategy on pages 5 and 11.
Contents
Strategic report Risk review This Strategic Report was approved by the
Board on 19 February 2025.
1 Performance in 2024 127 Our approach to risk
Sir Mark E Tucker
2 Highlights 131 Top and emerging risks
Group Chairman
4 Who we are 13 Our material banking risks
7
6 Group Chairman’s shareholder letter
8 Group CEO’s shareholder letter Corporate governance report A reminder
11 Our strategy The currency we report in is US dollars.
15 ESG overview 237 Biographies of Directors and
Our approach to ESG reporting
20 Board decision making and senior management
We embed our ESG reporting and Task Force on
engagement with stakeholders 259 Board committees
Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’) within
24 Remuneration disclosures are highlighted with the following
25 Financial overview Financial statements symbol: TCFD
30 Global businesses
Use of alternative performance
37 Risk overview 330 Independent auditors’ report
measures
40 Long-term viability and going 341 Financial statements
We supplement our IFRS Accounting Standards
concern statement 353 Notes on the financial statements
figures with non-IFRS Accounting Standards
measures used by management internally that
Environmental, social and Additional information constitute alternative performance measures under
governance (‘ESG’) review European Securities and Markets Authority guidance
439 Shareholder information and non-GAAP financial measures defined in and
42 Environmental 454 Abbreviations presented in accordance with US Securities and
Exchange Commission rules and regulations.
63 Social
These measures are highlighted with the following
73 Governance
symbol:
Financial review Further explanation may be found on page 29.
86 Financial summary Targets and forward guidance
98 Global businesses and legal We do not reconcile our forward guidance on RoTE
entities excluding the impact of notable items, target basis
operating expenses, dividend payout ratio target
120 Reconciliation of alternative
basis or banking net interest income (‘banking NII’)
performance measures
to their equivalent reported measures.
For our financial targets, medium-term is defined as
between three to five years, and long term as five to
six years, from 1 January 2025.
See page 2 for details on our forward guidance
Cover image: Opening up a world of opportunity and outlook.
celebrates our rich history of shaping finance around the world. To
and Accounts 2024 for the year ended 31 December
mark this occasion, our special anniversary cover encapsulates the
2024 (including where a link is provided), and none of
depth and the breadth of our services, and our commitment to
the information contained on such websites, are
connecting people and businesses through our global network –
incorporated by reference in this report.
creating opportunities, driving progress and pioneering new ideas.
linkedin.com/company/hsbc

[PAGE 3]

Performance in 2024
HSBC is one of the largest banking and financial services
organisations in the world.
We have a clear strategy to deliver revenue and profit growth,
enhance customer service and create long-term shareholder value.
Financial performance Return on average tangible equity Operating expenses
14.6% $33.0bn
indicators
Our financial performance indicators (2023: 14.6%) (2023: $32.1bn)
demonstrate our continued focus on the Return on average tangible equity excluding Target basis operating expenses up 5% to
delivery of sustainable returns for our notable items of 16.0% (2023: 16.2%) $32.6bn
shareholders. They also provide insight into
the performance that has driven the Profit before tax Common equity tier 1 capital ratio
outcomes of our financial targets. $32.3bn 14.9%
Read more on our financial performance in 2024
on pages 2 and 27.
For an explanation of performance against our (2023: $30.3bn) (2023: 14.8%)
key Group financial targets, see page 25.
For a reconciliation of alternative performance Net interest income Dividend per share in respect of 2024
measures to their reported equivalents, see $32.7bn $0.87
page 124.
(2023: $35.8bn) Inclusive of a special dividend of $0.21 per
Banking net interest income of $43.7bn share.
(2023: $44.1bn) (2023 dividend per share: $0.61)
Strategic performance Grow our Wealth business Gender representation
$64bn 34.6%
indicators
Our strategy supports our ambition of being Net new invested assets generated in 2024, Senior leadership roles held by women.
the preferred international financial partner for of which $47bn were in Asia. (2023: 34.1%)
our clients. (2023: $84bn generated, of which $47bn
were in Asia)
We are committed to building a business for
the long term, developing relationships that
Serve our clients internationally Sustainable finance and investment
last.
62% $393.6bn
Read more on our strategy on pages 11 to 13.
Read more on multi-jurisdictional client revenue
on page 125. Wholesale multi-jurisdictional client revenue Cumulative total provided and facilitated since
Read more on how we set and define our ESG is generated by clients banking with us across 1 January 2020.
metrics on page 17. multiple markets. (2023: $294.4bn)
Read more on our definition of sustainable (2023: 61%)
finance and investment on page 45.

[PAGE 4]

Strategic Report
Highlights
Financial performance reflected business growth, particularly in Wealth.
We continued to make progress in reshaping the Group and we have announced
a simplification of our organisation structure to accelerate strategic delivery.
Financial performance (vs 2023)
– Profit before tax rose by $2.0bn to $32.3bn, – Net interest income (‘NII’) decreased by – France, and from lower levies in the UK and
including a $1.0bn net favourable impact from $3.1bn, reflecting the impact of business the US.
notable items. In 2024, these included a gain of disposals and higher funding costs associated
– Target basis operating expenses rose by
$4.8bn on the disposal of our banking business with the redeployment of our commercial
5%, in line with our cost growth target.
in Canada, the impacts of the disposal of our surplus to the trading book, where the related
This increase primarily reflected higher spend
business in Argentina, comprising a $1.0bn loss revenue is recognised in ‘net income from
and investment in technology, and the impact
on disposal, and the recycling of foreign financial instruments held for trading or
of inflation. This is measured on a constant
currency reserve losses and other reserves of managed on a fair value basis‘, partly offset by
currency basis, excluding notable items, the
$5.2bn. In 2023, notable items included an higher NII in HSBC UK, reflecting the benefit
impact of retranslating the prior year results of
impairment of $3.0bn on our associate, Bank of of our structural hedge. Banking NII of hyperinflationary economies at constant
Communications Co., Limited (‘BoCom’), $43.7bn fell by $0.4bn or 1% compared currency, and the direct costs from the sales
disposal losses of $1.0bn on Treasury with 2023, as increased deployment of our of our French retail banking operations and our
repositioning and risk management and a commercial surplus to the trading book only
banking business in Canada.
$1.6bn gain recognised on the acquisition of partly mitigated the reductions in NII.
– Customer lending balances fell by $8bn on
Silicon Valley Bank UK Limited (‘SVB UK’).
– Net interest margin (‘NIM’) of 1.56%
a reported basis but rose by $14bn on a
Profit after tax increased by $0.4bn to decreased by 10 basis points (‘bps’), mainly constant currency basis. Growth included
$25.0bn. due to increased deployment of our
lending balance growth in CMB and higher
– Constant currency profit before tax commercial surplus to the trading book. mortgage balances in WPB.
excluding notable items increased by – Expected credit losses and other credit – Customer accounts rose by $43bn on a
$1.4bn to $34.1bn, primarily reflecting
impairment charges (‘ECL’) of $3.4bn were
reported basis, and $75bn on a constant
revenue growth in Wealth and Personal
stable. ECL were $1.8bn in Commercial currency basis, with growth across all of our
Banking (‘WPB’) and Global Banking and
Banking (‘CMB’) and $0.2bn in GBM. This
global businesses, primarily in Asia.
Markets (‘GBM’), partly offset by a rise in
included stage 3 charges relating to the
operating expenses, in line with our cost – Common equity tier 1 (‘CET1’) capital
commercial real estate sector in mainland
growth targets.
China ($0.4bn), the onshore Hong Kong real
ratio of 14.9% rose by 0.1 of a percentage
point, mainly due to capital generation and a
– Revenue of $65.9bn was stable. There was estate sector ($0.1bn), and a charge related to
reduction in RWAs through strategic
growth in revenue from higher customer a single CMB customer in the UK. ECL in
transactions, offset by dividends, share buy-
activity in Wealth in WPB, and in Equities and WPB were $1.3bn and primarily related to our
backs and organic balance sheet growth.
Securities Financing in GBM. In addition, 2023 legal entities in Mexico, Hong Kong and the
included disposal losses of $1.0bn related to UK. ECL were 36bps of average gross – The Board has approved a fourth interim
Treasury repositioning and risk management. loans, including loans and advances dividend of $0.36 per share, resulting in a
This was offset by the net adverse impact of classified as held for sale (2023: 32bps). total of $0.87 per share in respect of 2024,
certain strategic transactions described above, inclusive of a special dividend of $0.21 per
– Operating expenses grew by $1.0bn or 3%
as well as a $0.2bn loss on the early share. We also intend to initiate a share buy-
to $33.0bn, mainly due to higher spend and
redemption of legacy securities. back of up to $2bn, which we expect to
investment in technology and the impacts of
complete by our first quarter 2025 results
– Constant currency revenue excluding inflation, partly offset by reductions related to
announcement.
notable items rose by $2.9bn to $67.4bn. our business disposals in Canada and
Outlook
– We have announced measures to simplify the – We retain a Group-wide focus on cost – annualised reduction of $1.5bn in our cost
Group and we are focused on opportunities discipline. We are targeting growth in target base expected by the end of 2026. To deliver
that build on our strong platform for growth. basis operating expenses of approximately these reductions, we plan to incur severance
– We are now targeting a mid-teens return on 3% in 2025 compared with 2024. and other up-front costs of $1.8bn over 2025
average tangible equity (‘RoTE’) in each of – Our target basis operating expenses for 2025 and 2026, which will be classified as notable
items. We are focused on opportunities where
the three years from 2025 to 2027 excluding excludes the direct cost impact of the business
we have a clear competitive advantage and
notable items, while acknowledging the disposals in Canada and Argentina, notable
accretive returns, and we aim to redeploy
outlook for interest rates remains volatile and items and the impact of retranslating the prior
around $1.5bn of additional costs from non-
uncertain, particularly in the medium term. year results of hyperinflationary economies at
constant currency. strategic activities into these areas, over the
– We expect banking NII of around $42bn in
medium term.
2025. Our current expectation reflects – Our cost target includes the impact of
modelling of a number of market-dependent simplification-related saves associated with our – We expect ECL charges as a percentage of
factors. If changes in these factors impact the announced reorganisation, which aims to average gross loans to continue to be
output of our modelling, we would update our generate approximately $0.3bn of cost within our medium-term planning range of
expectation for 2025 Banking NII in future reductions in 2025, with a commitment to an 30bps to 40bps in 2025 (including lending held
for sale balances).
quarterly results announcements.

[PAGE 5]

– Over the medium to long term, we continue to – We intend to continue to manage the CET1 Our targets and expectations reflect our current
expect mid-single digit percentage growth capital ratio within our medium-term target outlook for the global macroeconomic
environment and market-dependent factors, such
for year-on-year customer lending balances. range of 14% to 14.5%, with a dividend
as market-implied interest rates (as of mid-January
– We expect double-digit percentage average payout ratio target basis of 50% for 2025, 2025) and rates of foreign exchange, as well as
annual growth in fee and other income in excluding material notable items and related customer behaviour and activity levels.
Wealth over the medium-term. impacts. We do not reconcile our forward guidance on RoTE
excluding the impact of notable items, target basis
operating expenses, dividend payout ratio target
basis or banking NII to their equivalent reported
measures.
Reshaping the Group for growth
– We continue to make progress on – In March 2024, we completed the sale of – In January 2025, as part of our efforts to
reshaping the Group. In 2024, we HSBC Bank Canada. The completion of the simplify HSBC and increase leadership in our
completed the sales of our retail banking transaction resulted in a $4.8bn gain on sale, areas of strength, we announced that we
operations in France, and exited our inclusive of the recycling of foreign currency will begin to wind down our mergers and
businesses in Canada and Argentina. We have translation and other reserves losses. acquisitions (‘M&A’) and equity capital
also enhanced the efficiency of the Group Following completion of the sale, the Board markets activities in the UK, Europe, and
through smaller inorganic actions. approved a special dividend of $0.21 per the US, subject to local legal requirements.
share, which was paid on 21 June 2024. We will retain more focused M&A and equity
– In 2024, we served our customers through
three global businesses, Wealth and – In December 2024, we completed the sale capital markets capabilities in Asia and the
Personal Banking, Commercial Banking of our business in Argentina. The Middle East.
and Global Banking and Markets. In completion of the transaction resulted in a pre- – In June 2024, we completed the
October 2024, we announced that we are tax loss on sale of $1.0bn during 2024 and a acquisition of Citi’s retail wealth
simplifying our organisational structure to $5.2bn recycling of foreign currency management portfolio in mainland China.
accelerate delivery against our strategic translation reserve losses and other reserves This portfolio complements our growing set of
priorities. Effective 1 January 2025, the Group to the income statement in 4Q24. wealth businesses and our ambition to be the
operates through four new businesses: Hong – During 2024, we completed the sale of our leading international wealth manager for mass
Kong, UK, Corporate and Institutional Banking, business in Russia and recognised foreign affluent and high net worth individuals in
and International Wealth and Premier Banking. currency translation reserve losses of mainland China.
– In January 2024, we completed the sale of approximately $0.1bn. We also completed the – In January 2024, we acquired SilkRoad
our retail banking operations in France. In sale of our operations in Armenia and exited Property Partners Group – expanding our
accordance with the terms of the sale, we our retail banking operations in Mauritius. real estate investment capabilities in Asia-
retained a €7.1bn ($7.4bn) portfolio of home – We also announced divestments in our Pacific, aligning with our ambition of becoming
and other loans. During the fourth quarter of a top direct real estate investment manager in
private banking business in Germany and
2024 we began to actively market this retained our business in South Africa, and we signed the region.
portfolio for sale. On 1 January 2025 we
a memorandum of understanding in relation to Acquisitions and disposals that are classified as
reclassified this portfolio as hold-to-collect-and- the planned sale of our France life material notable items form part of ‘strategic
sell and expect to recognise an estimated $1bn transactions’ and their impacts are separately
insurance business. In addition, we have
presented in our financial reporting. Read more
fair value pre-tax loss in ‘other comprehensive
launched a strategic review of our business in on the financial impact of our strategic
income’ in equity on the remeasurement of the Malta. The review is at an early stage and no transactions on page 102.
financial instruments in 1Q25. Read more on our organisational update on
decisions have been made.
page 5.
ESG update
Transition to net zero mean that we would need to rely heavily on Build inclusion and resilience
– Supporting the transition to net zero is a key carbon offsets to achieve net zero in our supply – In 2024, 34.6% of senior leadership roles
priority for HSBC. In our net zero transition plan chain by 2030. As such, we have revisited our were held by women, and we are on track
published in January 2024, we committed to ambition, taking into account latest best to achieve our ambition of 35% by 2025.
continually calibrate our approach to take into practice on carbon offsets. We are now We also continued to work towards meeting
consideration the latest scientific focused on achieving net zero in our our ethnicity ambitions.
methodologies, climate-related policy operations, travel and supply chain by 2050. – Digital accessibility is important to us. We are
measures and developments in the real world. – Since 2020, we have provided and facilitated using the power of technology to help provide
As we near the mid-point towards our 2030 $393.6bn of sustainable finance and a great digital experience for our customers and
targets, we have begun a review of our investment, which was an increase of $99.2bn employees, including people with disabilities
interim 2030 financed emission targets and in the past year. This consisted of green and and those who are neurodivergent. We also
associated policies. This forms part of our social financing, alongside other forms of expanded our efforts to support customers
annual net zero transition plan review as sustainable financing and investment. with disabilities in our branch spaces.
referenced in our 3Q24 earnings release in
– We have continued to focus on financing Act responsibly
October.
our clients’ transition needs. In 2024, we – We have strengthened our AI governance
– In 2020, we set an ambition to achieve net zero launched HSBC Infrastructure Finance to help processes to help ensure the responsible
in our own operations and supply chain by realise the financing and advisory development and use of AI and launched
2030. We have made good progress in opportunities in creating the infrastructure www.hsbc.com/ai to increase the transparency
reducing our scope 1 and 2 emissions and are for a low carbon economy. We have also of our AI strategy with clients and investors.
currently on track to deliver reductions of more continued to focus on emerging climate – We continued to develop our understanding
than 90% by 2030 compared to our 2019 technologies and supply chain of our salient human rights issues. In 2024,
baseline. However, progress in reducing decarbonisation. we focused on our approach to human rights
emissions in the scope 3 supply chain
– We have continued to participate in cross risk management relating to the goods and
component is proving slower than we
sector efforts to support customers’ services we buy from third parties and in
anticipated. We currently expect a 40%
transitions. respect of our business customers.
emissions reduction across our operations,
travel and supply chain by 2030 which would
Strategic
report

[PAGE 6]

Strategic Report
Who we are
HSBC is one of the largest banking and financial services organisations in the world.
Guided by our purpose of opening up a world of opportunity, our ambition is to be the preferred
international financial partner for our clients.
Our global
In 2024, we served around 41 million customers worldwide through a network
reach covering 58 countries and territories.
Our customers range from individual savers Assets of Approximately
and investors to some of the world’s $3.0tn 41m
biggest companies, governments and
international organisations. We aim to
Customers bank with us
connect them to opportunities and help
them to achieve their ambitions.
Operations in We employ approximately
For further details of our customers and 58 211,000
approach to geographical information, see
page 96.
Countries and territories Full-time equivalent staff
Our global In 2024, we served our customers through three global businesses, which focused on
delivering growth in areas where we have distinctive capabilities and have significant
businesses
opportunities. Our 2024 operating segment results are presented on this basis.
in 2024 Effective 1 January 2025, the Group will operate through four new businesses which
are detailed on page 5.
Wealth and Personal Commercial Banking Global Banking and
Banking (’WPB’) (‘CMB’) Markets (’GBM’)
WPB helped millions of our Our global reach and expertise GBM provided a comprehensive
customers look after their day-to- helped domestic and international range of financial services and
day finances and manage, protect businesses around the world products to corporates,
and grow their wealth. unlock their potential. governments and institutions.
For further details, see page 30. For further details, see page 32. For further details, see page 34.
For further details on our
organisational update, see page 5.
1
Revenue in 2024 by global business
WPB CMB GBM
42% 32% 26%
1 Calculation is based on revenue of our global businesses excluding Corporate Centre. Corporate Centre had negative
revenue of $1,929m in 2024. See page 36 for details of Corporate Centre results in 2024.

[PAGE 7]

Our new
Effective from 1 January 2025, we have implemented a new organisational business
organisational structure that aims to unleash our full potential by building on our strong progress in
recent years and driving our success into the future.
structure
Hong Kong UK
Being the market leader in our home market of Hong Our UK ring-fenced bank has a leading market
Kong is one of our clear strengths and remains a position in our home market of the UK and will
strategic priority. continue to be a critical pillar of our strategy.
Corporate and Institutional International Wealth
Banking and Premier Banking
Our new Corporate and Institutional Banking This business brings together Premier focused
business is a market leader in cross-border banking (outside Hong Kong and the UK), our Global
transaction banking and capital markets and Private Bank, and our wealth manufacturing
integrates our Commercial Banking business businesses of Asset Management and Insurance.
(outside the UK and Hong Kong) with our Global
Banking and Markets business.
Group Operating Committee
To align with the new structure, a new Group Operating Committee comprised of 12 members now serves as
the leading decision-making committee of the Group, replacing the Group Executive Committee of 18
members. The Group’s functions are also being realigned to support the new business structure.
* Both our Hong Kong and UK businesses will serve our personal banking customers and commercial clients residing in these
home markets.
For further details on our senior management team, see page 242.
Our values
Our values help define who we are as an organisation, and are key to our long-term success.
We value We succeed We take We get
difference together responsibility it done
Our stakeholders B uilding strong relationships with our stakeholders helps enable us to deliver our strategy in
line with our long-term values, and operate the business in a sustainable way.
Our stakeholders are the people who Many of our employees are Our size and global reach mean our
work for us, bank with us, own us, customers and shareholders, while actions can have a significant
regulate us, and live in the societies our business customers are often impact. We are committed to doing
we serve and the planet we all suppliers. Guided by our purpose, business responsibly, and thinking
inhabit. These human connections we aim to create value for our for the long term. This is key to
are complex and overlap. customers and shareholders. delivering our strategy.
For further details of how we are engaging with our stakeholders, see page 16.
Strategic
report

[PAGE 8]

Strategic Report
Group Chairman’s shareholder letter
HSBC’s 160th Anniversary
2025 will mark HSBC’s 160th anniversary.
In 1865, HSBC’s founders started out with a
clear and simple objective: to establish a bank
in Hong Kong and Shanghai that would
facilitate local and international trade,
connecting East and West, and the many
places in-between.
That objective is as relevant and significant
today as it was then.
2024 progress and performance
In 2024, we delivered profit before tax of
$32.3bn - an increase of $2.0bn compared
with 2023. Our return on average tangible
equity was 14.6%, or 16% excluding the
impact of notable items.
We delivered increased returns for our
shareholders. The Board approved a fourth
quarterly dividend of $0.36 per share, bringing
the total dividend announced for 2024 to
$0.87 per share. This includes the special
dividend of $0.21 per share that was paid in
June following the completion of the sale of
HSBC Bank Canada. In addition, we
announced three share buy-backs in respect
Sir Mark E Tucker of 2024 worth a total of $9bn. And today, we
Group Chairman announced a further share buy-back of up to
$2bn.
2024 was a year of strong performance. We continued to help
Since the start of 2023, we have repurchased
our customers navigate challenges and capture meaningful 11% of the issued share count. Combined
with our sustained levels of profitability, this
opportunities, whilst providing increased returns for our
led to greater earnings and dividends per
shareholders. Looking ahead, we have the right people and share for our shareholders.
structure to drive accelerated growth in 2025 and beyond. Dividends paid in 2024, together with a more
than 20% increase in the share price,
delivered a total shareholder return for the
year of more than 30%.
Our performance demonstrates that our
In 2024, global economic growth was mixed. This was against a backdrop of significant
strategy is working. To maintain, and indeed
In the West, the US remained an geopolitical uncertainty, heightened by
accelerate, the momentum, we are being
outperformer, while growth across Europe numerous and consequential elections across
very deliberate in creating investment
was disappointing. In Asia and the Middle the world. The war in Ukraine, now entering
capacity for priority areas, focusing on long-
East, there was broadly steady growth. With its fourth year, and the conflicts and
term strategic growth.
inflation falling and with signs of the labour continuing tensions in the Middle East, have
market softening, the US Federal Reserve had a tragic human impact. Our thoughts are Optimising cost and capital allocation, we
was able to start cutting rates, as did most with all those who have suffered and completed the sale of our businesses in
advanced economies. continue to experience the devastating Canada, Russia, Argentina, and Armenia, as
consequences. well as our retail banking operations in France
and Mauritius. We announced the planned
In this context, our focus is on our
sale of our business in South Africa and of
customers, leveraging our global network to
our private banking business in Germany, as
help them navigate the challenges and
well as the planned sale of our life insurance
capture the opportunities that emerge. That
business in France.
approach, combined with the disciplined
execution of our strategy, delivered another In parallel, our strategic investments are
strong financial performance and increased yielding significant results. In Wealth, for
returns in 2024. instance, revenue grew by 18% in 2024,
including a 21% increase in fee and other
And we are very well positioned for the
income. The continued inflow of Net New
future.
Invested Assets and growth in total
customers point to the material upside
opportunity. In Hong Kong, for instance, we
added approximately 800k new-to-bank
customers.

[PAGE 9]

"Our performance At the same time, we secured multiple Global outlook
additional licences to expand our operations The economic outlook remains uncertain with
demonstrates that our in mainland China. In India, we received an potential downside risks to global growth
approval earlier this year to open bank from trade frictions and supply chain
strategy is working. To
branches in 20 new cities that are at the disruptions. Inflation has declined but is
maintain, and indeed centre of the expanding wealth and proving stubborn and could be impacted by
international opportunity. oil and gas prices, as well as any trade tariffs.
accelerate, the
We will continue to focus on and invest in Global growth is expected to remain fairly
momentum, we are growth opportunities where we have a clear stable in 2025, with the US still likely to
competitive advantage. remain the major engine of growth. However,
being very deliberate in policy priorities are adding to uncertainties
Leadership and Board Changes regarding growth prospects around the world.
creating investment Following Noel Quinn’s decision to retire as
Already, it appears that the improvement in
Group Chief Executive, the Board ran a
world trade growth may be starting to falter.
capacity for priority
rigorous and robust process to appoint his
successor. In China, the package of fiscal and monetary
areas, focusing on long-
measures announced in the final quarter of
I would like to once again pay tribute to
term strategic growth." 2024 was welcome and helped it reach its
Noel’s exceptional leadership and thank him
annual target of ‘around 5%’ GDP growth.
for his unwavering commitment and
Aided by its transformation to a consumption-
dedication to HSBC during his 37 years of
led and innovation-focused economic model,
service. We wish him the very best in all of
we expect it to deliver a comparable
his future endeavours.
performance in 2025. Hong Kong should also
continue to expand, with its growth directly
In September, Georges Elhedery became our
linked to mainland China.
Group Chief Executive. He brings a wealth of
experience and an outstanding track record of
Elsewhere in Asia, changing supply chains
delivery, achieved over a career spent
and resilient local demand helped to drive
working in Asia, the Middle East and Europe.
growth in a number of markets, including
India. Over the longer term, the demographic
In a little over five months, he has already
dividend will benefit countries like India and
made his mark.
markets across South and Southeast Asia.
From 1 January 2025, we began operating
As this happens, we also continue to see
through four businesses: Hong Kong, the UK,
great potential in the fast-growing corridor
Corporate and Institutional Banking, and
between Asia and the Middle East, where
International Wealth and Premier Banking.
strong demographics combine with large
The objective is to create a simpler and more
scale capital spending on infrastructure and
dynamic organisation - with faster decision-
further diversification, which are set to
making and clear lines of accountability.
continue.
Georges was succeeded as Group Chief
In Europe, with inflation pressures easing and
Financial Officer by Pam Kaur, who joined the
interest rates on a downward trajectory,
Board as an Executive Director, having
consumer spending should rise. As a result,
previously served as Group Chief Risk and
we expect the Eurozone to expand this year.
Compliance Officer.
Meanwhile, the new UK government is
At the 2024 Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’), pursuing a pro-growth agenda, which we fully
David Nish retired from the Board. David support.
made invaluable contributions over eight
Our people
years, particularly as Chair of the Group Audit
I want to end by expressing the Board’s
Committee and as Senior Independent
immense appreciation and gratitude to all our
Director. Ann Godbehere took over as Senior
colleagues for driving our Group forward.
Independent Director. Ann’s extensive
financial services experience, over a 30-year
All that we delivered in 2024 was only made
career spanning insurance, retail and private
possible by their sustained efforts, energies,
banking, and wealth management, positions
and execution focus. They are the lifeblood of
her very well for this role. Brendan Nelson
the HSBC Group, serving our customers and
took over as Chair of the Group Audit
creating value for shareholders.
Committee. His UK and international financial
and auditing expertise and experience are
enormously valuable.
In 2024, the Board held meetings in mainland
China, Dubai, Singapore, New York, and
London. On each occasion, we had the
Sir Mark E Tucker
privilege and pleasure to meet with valued
Group Chairman
clients, government officials, regulators, and
colleagues. 19 February 2025
Our AGM in London and the Informal
Meeting of our Hong Kong Shareholders
provided substantive opportunities to engage
with our shareholders, on important issues
related to the Group.
Strategic
report

[PAGE 10]

Strategic Report
Group CEO’s shareholder letter
in line with our targeted cost growth. This
strong performance enabled us to announce
$26.9 billion in returns to our shareholders
through dividends and share buy-backs,
which we expect to remain central to our
strategy.
Simple, more agile, focused
The world in which we operate is changing
quickly. We are adapting to help our
customers navigate new complexities. By
doing so, we will open up a world of
opportunity as we serve their needs,
delivering on our strategy.
Since assuming the role in September, I have
focused on injecting energy and intent into
the way we deliver our strategy. We are
being more agile in the way we allocate our
resources and invest to prepare for the
future. That includes retiring non-strategic
assets and embracing the productive power
of new technologies and tools to modernise
HSBC and enhance the way we serve our
customers.
We have renewed vigour in finding the
efficiencies that will optimise our resource
allocation, be that geographical, business line
or balance sheet. This will enhance the way
Georges Elhedery
we actively and dynamically manage costs
Group CEO
and capital, and target investments.
A simple, more agile, focused organisation built on our core
We will be guided by three overarching
strengths, delivering sustainable strategic growth for our priorities:
customers and shareholders. – Focus on our customers, delivering high
levels of satisfaction;
– Drive long-term growth by focusing on our
strengths, increasing our leadership and
market share in the areas where we can
RoTE Dear fellow shareholders, generate attractive returns;
14.6%
The opportunity to lead HSBC is a privilege. – Simplify our structure and operating model.
Even more so as we celebrate our 160th Reshape and rationalise our portfolio, to
anniversary. Like each of my predecessors, I meet the needs of a fast-changing world.
(2023: 14.6%) see my responsibility as delivering
To achieve this, I have put in place a smaller,
sustainable strategic growth for our
RoTE excluding notable items shareholders. This begins by putting our core team of exceptionally talented leaders.
16.0% customers at the centre of everything we do. They are each committed to fostering a culture
of excellence for our colleagues, driven by a
Our financial strength, international network,
growth-orientated mindset. HSBC’s many
heritage, and brand mean we build upon firm
talented colleagues around the world are key to
(2023: 16.2%) foundations.
delivering the exceptional customer experience
We look to the future with confidence. that will drive our future growth.
Profit before tax
$32.3bn We begin from a position of strength, which We have also simplified the organisation in
is reinforced by our 2024 performance. two important ways.
During the year, we delivered a return on
First, by moving away from a complex matrix
average tangible equity (‘RoTE’) of 14.6%.
(2023: $30.3bn) governance structure built around three
This includes several notable items, in
business lines and five geographical regions
particular related to strategic disposals.
to create four new businesses. Each firmly
Excluding these, our RoTE was 16.0%,
rooted in our core strengths:
achieving our ‘mid-teens’ target. Our
common equity tier 1 (‘CET1’) capital ratio – Corporate and Institutional Banking, which
was 14.9%, reflecting our long-standing combines our two wholesale businesses;
financial strength. With our continued focus
– International Wealth and Premier Banking,
on cost discipline, we managed cost growth
to focus on accelerating the build out of our
on our target basis of around 5%, which was
global wealth proposition;

[PAGE 11]

"Our ambition is to – Our two home markets of Hong Kong and The future economy will require financing and
the UK, where we have scale and market- investment in sectors such as advanced
unlock HSBC’s full leading positions. technologies, specifically digitalisation,
computing and generative AI, as well as clean
potential for the benefit HSBC’s supporting infrastructure is being
energy and healthcare. CIB is well positioned
simplified and realigned to enable these four
of all our stakeholders, businesses to grow. to facilitate this by helping entrepreneurs to
secure the capital they need to build the
provide excellent Simply put, we are aligning our structure to businesses of the future and by supporting
our strategy. our customers as they look to decarbonise.
customer outcomes that
Second, we are significantly improving our International Wealth and Premier Banking
enhance our franchise operating model, led by a tighter team at the (‘IWPB’) is ideally placed to capture the
Group Operating Committee, that will: increasing number of affluent and high-net-
and brand, generating
worth customers. Especially those with
– Provide clarity of accountability, empower international banking needs who seek new
the strategic growth that
colleagues to make faster decisions and investment opportunities to help them to
will deliver attractive accelerate the pace at which we generate protect and grow their wealth. Our
greater productivity; recognised brand, financial strength and
returns for you, our – Make HSBC simple, with fewer complementary footprints across Asia and
management lines and layers, and less the Middle East serve to reinforce HSBC‘s
shareholders."
committees, designed to reduce position in the world’s fastest-growing wealth
bureaucracy, create closer collaboration, markets. We also have an asset management
emphasise teamwork, and facilitate the business with distinct specialism in both
flow of ideas and innovation; regions offering customers access to
investment opportunities across asset
– Adapt quickly to the factors that are classes.
shaping the economies and industries in
which our customers operate; The Hong Kong and UK businesses give us
strong platforms in our home markets. We
– Sharpen and strengthen our focus on serve personal banking customers and small
capital efficiency and firm-wide risk and medium enterprises in these businesses.
management. In Hong Kong specifically, where HSBC was
founded, Hang Seng Bank, a customer-
This will create a step change in the way we
centric community bank, is a strategically
work, the way we serve customers and the
important investment of the HSBC Group,
way we generate sustainable strategic
which enhances the strength of our franchise
growth, driving higher returns for our
and market-leading position. We also have a
shareholders.
fast-growing insurance manufacturing
In short, unlocking HSBC’s full potential. business in Hong Kong, leveraging the
inflows that are propelling Hong Kong to
Designed to deliver strong, sustainable become the leading international wealth hub.
strategic growth In the UK, we have a leading retail,
For 160 years, HSBC has been defined by its commercial and innovation-focused bank
financial strength and international network. which continues to build market share.
Both remain enablers of everything we do.
What is changing is the clarity, speed and Customers in Hong Kong and the UK with
intensity with which we are repositioning global banking needs will be able to access
HSBC around our four complementary, clearly the power of our international network
differentiated businesses. through our CIB and IWPB businesses, that
are anchored in these two leading
Corporate and Institutional Banking (‘CIB’) is international financial centres.
an international wholesale bank with
significant competitive advantages. It has a
powerful deposit franchise with financing
capabilities supported by the strength of our
balance sheet and our network. It has the
products and skills required to serve the
global banking needs of international
corporate clients, particularly in transaction
banking where we continue to invest. This
positions us to better capture global and intra-
regional flows as supply chains reconfigure,
new trade routes emerge, economies grow,
and customers’ expectations of financial
services evolve.
Strategic
report

[PAGE 12]

Strategic Report
Financial strength Delivering on our priorities to customers We have clarity on who we are and what we
and shareholders seek to achieve. We are driven by a precision
CET1 ratio HSBC is a highly connected, global of purpose that guides the way we do
14.9% organisation. Our international network is a business, the values we uphold and the way
significant differentiator. we serve our customers, colleagues and
communities.
By refocusing on our core strengths, we are
(2023: 14.8%) creating a simple, more agile, focused We are prioritising a high-performance culture
organisation structured to better serve our where employees are passionate about what
customers and deliver for our shareholders. they can achieve and rewarded for their
In 2024, our strong financial performance strong customer focus, skills, ambition and
enabled us to announce We have taken the first deliberate and initiative. We will invest in our people, one of
$26.9bn decisive steps. We continue to move at pace our most valuable assets, providing them
and with a relentless focus on actively
with expansive career opportunities and
managing our costs. Not as a one off, but as
supporting them in developing future-focused
an embedded mindset.
in returns to our shareholders through skills, establishing HSBC as an employer of
dividends and share buy-backs. How we deliver on our three priorities is choice and a great place to work.
equally important. We are instilling a culture
A strong culture and effective leadership will
of excellence, leadership and accountability
be key to our long-term success.
throughout the firm. We are also undergoing
Cost discipline
a comprehensive transformation of our I would like to thank all of my colleagues for
operations, modernising our infrastructure, their valuable contributions to our results. It is
Operating expenses
and investing in technology such as AI, a privilege to work with such talented people.
$33.0bn
generative AI, data and analytics. This will Their dedication, commitment, and desire to
enhance customer experience as well as deliver for our customers differentiates HSBC
drive operational excellence. and is key to delivering long-term growth.
(2023: $32.1bn)
Target basis operating expenses up 5% to The aim being to create a refocused, The actions we are taking will have clear and
$32.6bn reinvigorated HSBC, firmly rooted in four tangible impact. Our ambition is to unlock
complementary businesses with the ambition HSBC’s full potential for the benefit of all our
to generate high levels of total shareholder stakeholders, provide excellent customer
returns. outcomes that enhance our franchise and
brand, generating the strategic growth that
Today’s actions define a confident will deliver attractive returns for you, our
future shareholders.
I am confident about our future and what we
can achieve.
As we celebrate our 160th anniversary, our
history and heritage stand us in good stead.
In so many ways, adapting to new economic
realities and technologies is what we have
Georges Elhedery
always done. It brings out the best in our
Group CEO
people and culture, especially when acting as
a trusted advisor to our customers as they 19 February 2025
navigate the world’s economic uncertainties
and look towards new opportunities.
As we look to the future, our strategic
priorities are clear, our leadership team is
now in place, supported by a simplified
structure that enables action.

[PAGE 13]

Our strategy
During 2024, we continued to implement our strategy
aligned to our purpose, values and ambition.
On 22 October 2024, we announced that we Hong Kong, UK, Corporate and Institutional under, and our reporting remained aligned to,
would simplify our organisational structure to Banking, and International Wealth and our prior global business structure, Wealth
help accelerate delivery against our strategic Premier Banking. The Group’s functions are and Personal Banking, Commercial Banking
priorities. Effective 1 January 2025, we are being realigned to support the four and Global Banking and Markets.
operating through four new businesses: businesses. For 2024, the bank operated
Building leadership where we are strong
Our strategic priorities remain clear. We aim We are committed to building on our strong clearer lines of accountability and faster
to maintain and build on our leadership in platform for growth. HSBC is a highly decision making.
Hong Kong and the UK. International connected, global business and the plans we
connectivity distinguishes HSBC – indeed, set out in October 2024 aim to increase our
international trade has always been at the leadership and market share in areas where
heart of our business. We were founded in we have competitive advantage, deliver
Hong Kong in 1865 and by 1875 had best-in-class products and service excellence
expanded into seven countries across Asia, to our customers, and create a simple,
Europe and North America. more agile, focused organisation with
2024 results
We delivered a good set of results again in In 2024, we achieved a RoTE of 14.6%. Reported profit before tax
2024. Our reported profit before tax was During 2024, we reported several notable
$32.3bn. During 2024, we reported several items, in particular related to strategic Corporate Centre
$1.2bn
notable items, in particular related to the disposals. To facilitate comparison across
disposal of our businesses in Canada and periods, we also consider our RoTE excluding GBM
$7.1bn
Argentina. To facilitate comparison across the impact of notable items. In 2024, RoTE
periods, we also consider profit before tax excluding notable items was 16.0%,
WPB
excluding notable items and the impact of achieving our target of ‘mid-teens’. We
$12.2bn
foreign currency translation. On this basis, delivered a 16.2% RoTE excluding notable $32.3bn
profit before tax was $34.1bn, compared with items in 2023.
$32.7bn in 2023. Our reported revenue of
$65.9bn was broadly stable compared with 14.6% (2023: $30.3bn)
2023. Excluding notable items and in
constant currency, we grew revenue by 5%
compared with 2023.
Return on average tangible equity CMB
$11.9bn
(2023: 14.6%)
Progress in our affluent and wealth businesses
In WPB, revenue increased by 7% compared Revenue in Wealth was up $1.3bn or 18% $1.8tn
with 2023 on a constant currency basis. on a constant currency basis, with an
increase in Asia of 32%. This supports our
We continued to demonstrate strategic
medium term target to grow Wealth fees
Wealth balances
progress during 2024, building our affluent
and other income at a double-digit
Increased by 7% compared with 2023
and wealth propositions, taking advantage of
percentage compound annual growth rate
the growth of wealth assets, specifically in
over the medium term. Our total invested
Asia. At 31 December 2024, wealth balances
assets were $1.3tn, up from $1.2tn in 2023.
in WPB were $1.8tn, an increase of 7%
There was a strong performance in our WPB
compared with 2023. Within this we
insurance business, which delivered revenue
attracted net new invested assets of $64bn
growth of 32% to $1.8bn. Our insurance
in 2024, with $47bn booked in Asia. Wealth
manufacturing new business contractual
deposits, including Premier and Global
service margin (‘CSM’) of $2.5bn increased
Private Banking deposits, grew to $555bn.
by 49% compared with $1.7bn in 2023. The
growth in CSM underpins our potential future
revenue from this business.
Strategic
report

[PAGE 14]

Strategic Report
Progress in our wholesale businesses
In CMB, revenue declined by 4% compared Transaction banking is a leading HSBC $850bn
with 2023 on a constant currency basis. This proposition. We ranked second by Global
was primarily due to the non-recurrence of a Payments Solutions (‘GPS’) revenue in the
gain in 2023 on the acquisition of SVB UK. In first three quarters of 20241. We also
Trade volume facilitated
GBM, constant currency revenue grew by facilitated over $850bn in trade2 and have
1 Source: Coalition Greenwich Competitor Analytics
11% compared with 2023. been ranked first in revenue for the last
seven consecutive years3. We generated – 9M24.
Our strength in international connectivity is a 2 HSBC internal management information,
revenue of $26.3bn from transaction banking excluding Hang Seng, Malaysia and Germany.
key differentiator. We partner with our clients
during 2024, which was broadly stable 3 Source: Coalition Greenwich Competitor Analytics
as they expand internationally. The
compared with 2023. We were ranked joint – 9M24.
reconfiguration of global supply chains plays second in Global Foreign Exchange (‘GFX’) 4 Source: Coalition Greenwich Competitor
to our strength in network business: in our 58 revenue4 and second in APAC securities Analytics – 9M24.
markets, we are well placed to help clients services in the first three quarters of 20245. 5 Source: Coalition Greenwich Competitor
manage increased complexity. Analytics – 9M24.
Performance across geographies
Hong Kong Other markets In the UAE, we generated $0.9bn in profit
We have the leading banking franchise in Hong In addition to Hong Kong and the UK, we before tax. We continue to be the largest
Kong, with $575bn in customer deposits and have an established presence in a number of foreign bank in the UAE12 and aim to continue
market leadership in a number of product markets, including mainland China, India, growing our institutional and international
areas6. In 2024, reported revenue was Singapore and the UAE. These markets are wholesale banking business, leveraging the
$21.2bn, an increase of 6%. We welcomed well connected to international trade, wealth vital role the UAE and the Middle East play in
799,000 new-to-bank customers in WPB, with and investment flow and are key to our global trade. In 2024, we were ranked
the rate of growth accelerating from 345,000 in international connectivity. number one in equity and debt capital
the first half of 2024, to 454,000 in the second markets in MENAT for the 4th consecutive
half. Our 2024 full year new-to-bank customers In 2024, we reported profit before tax of year13 and Euromoney recognised us as the
$3.2bn in our mainland China business,
numbers grew by 66% compared with 2023. UAE’s Best International Bank. We
including a $2.2bn share of profit from our
We also continued to solidify our leadership established onshore Global Private Banking in
associate, BoCom. We have a strong client
position and grow our WPB business. In our 2022 and have continued to invest in our
franchise in mainland China, helping to
wholesale businesses, we focused on wealth platforms including our global online
support clients’ international needs. We were
maintaining our leading position across multiple trading platform WorldTrader, launched in
the Best Trade/Supply Chain Finance Bank in
products. In trade finance, our market share 2024. Our Wealth invested assets grew by
202410. We also completed the acquisition of
was 29.2%, an increase of 3.5 percentage 25% compared with 2023, and we saw an
points from 20237. Citi’s retail wealth management portfolio, and increase of 8% in our international new-to-
supported by our expanded onshore Global
bank customers during the same period.
UK Private Banking business, grew our wealth
HSBC UK has a top 3 franchise8 with $340bn invested assets by 61% compared with 2023. As noted above, from 1 January 2025, we are
in customer deposits. Reported revenue was operating through four businesses, while
In India, we reported a profit before tax of
$12.8bn in 2024, a decrease of 5%, although it during 2024, we operated through three
$1.7bn. We aim to continue growing our
represented an increase of 5% excluding the global businesses: WPB, CMB and GBM.
wholesale franchise by taking advantage of
$1.6bn gain on acquisition of Silicon Valley
corporate supply chains. In 2024, we were
Bank UK – a notable item in 2023. We
continued to grow our CMB business and we recognised by Euromoney as the number one 799,000
International Bank in India. We are also
are ‘Share Leader’ in UK corporate banking
tapping into the wealth pools of the Indian
with 75% market penetration, according to
Coalition Greenwich. In our WPB business, we diaspora through Global Private Banking. In Hong Kong WPB new-to-bank customers
2024, we remained the top foreign bank for
grew mortgage lending balances by $4.6bn
since 31 December 2023 on a constant non-resident Indians in wealth11. In January 75%
2025, we received permission to open 20
currency basis, taking our UK mortgage
market share from 8.0% to 8.1%9. In the UK, further branches, the largest such approval
for a foreign bank in over a decade.
we see the opportunity to continue building UK corporate banking market penetration
our mortgage franchise and build share in
In Singapore, we generated profit before tax
small and medium-sized enterprise (‘SME’) of $1.4bn. Singapore is our primary wholesale 6 HSBC internal analysis based on loans and
banking. offshore booking centre and wealth hub advances to customers and customer accounts in
our Hong Kong legal entity as of 30 June 2024,
within the ASEAN region and is a centre for
and the financial data presented in the 2Q24
our transaction banking operations. In 2024,
results announcements of 13 selected peer banks.
we were recognised by Euromoney as the 7 Source: HKMA.
Best International Bank and the Best Cash 8 HSBC internal analysis based on the 9M24 PBT
Management Bank in Singapore. We of HSBC UK and the financial data presented in
continued to grow our Premier and Wealth the 3Q24 results announcements of four
balances in Singapore in 2024. selected peer banks.
9 Source: Bank of England.
10 Source: Corporate Treasurer Awards 2024.
11 Source: Indian Mutual Fund Industry.
12 HSBC internal analysis based on 9M24 revenue,
deposits and advances, using peers' published
results.
13 Source: Bloomberg league table.

[PAGE 15]

Reshaping and focusing the Group
We have continued to make progress in We also announced planned disposals in our We completed the acquisition of Citi’s retail
reshaping the Group. In 2024, we completed private banking business in Germany and our wealth management portfolio in mainland
the sales of our businesses in Canada, business in South Africa. We signed a China and SilkRoad Property Partners Group
Russia, Armenia and Argentina. Furthermore, memorandum of understanding in relation to in Singapore.
we disposed of our retail banking operations the planned sale of our France life insurance
We expect further reshaping actions as we
in France and Mauritius. business and have launched a strategic
align the Group with our four businesses.
review of our business in Malta. The review
is at an early stage and no decisions have
been made.
Deposit strength core to our strategy
We are proud of our deposit strength across The long 2009-2021 period of close-to-zero $1.65tn
all of our franchises, which has built steadily central bank interest rates and very low
since our founding. We have a total deposit government bond yields in many of our
base of $1.65tn, comprised primarily of operational currencies constrained our
current and savings accounts. Our balance earnings in prior years. One contributor to Customer deposit balances
sheet is also highly liquid with customer our rise in profits in recent years has been a (2023: $1.61tn)
loans of $0.93tn, representing 56% of return of central bank interest rates and
customer deposits. We operate with a government bond yields to levels more $0.93tn
customer deposits surplus of $724bn relative typical of prior decades.
to customer loans. We hold a surplus of
Over the period from 2022 to 2024, we
deposits in each of our major functional Customer loans
increased both the size and duration of our
currencies, including US dollars, Hong Kong (2023: $0.94tn)
structural hedge, further stabilising our
dollars, sterling, renminbi and the euro. We
banking NII. The sensitivity of our banking NII
also operate a surplus of customer deposits
to a 100bps parallel downward shift in
relative to customer loans in our major
interest rates has reduced from c.$(7)bn at
operating entities, including The Hongkong
30 June 2022, to $(2.9)bn at 31 December
and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited,
2024. This was primarily due to hedging
HSBC UK and HSBC Bank plc.
actions, although higher prevailing interest
rates also contributed to a reduction in
sensitivity. The Group expects to further
increase the size and duration of the
structural hedge, subject to market
conditions.
Improving operational excellence through artificial intelligence
We are transforming our operations to By harnessing AI capabilities, HSBC aims to We are committed to the responsible use of
enhance customer experiences through the improve customer service through AI AI, ensuring that our initiatives align with
use of artificial intelligence (‘AI’) and supported mobile apps and strengthened industry and regulatory standards and best
automation to help deliver faster, contact centre capabilities, as well as practices. Our governance frameworks aim
personalised and more seamless services. improving process efficiency in onboarding, to enable robust prioritisation of use cases
Through the reduction of inefficiencies and know-your-customer, and credit applications. whilst mitigating potential risk associated
streamlining processes we will help provide We are supporting our engineers through the with AI deployment.
quicker responses and better journeys for scaled roll out of coding assistants to
our customers. The investments we are improve technology productivity, and we are
making in Technology will contribute to a using AI to help protect the bank and our
simpler, safer organisation with operational customers more effectively against fraud and
resilience and stability at its core, helping to cyber crime.
create lasting value for both our customers
and stakeholders.
Strategic
report

[PAGE 16]

Strategic Report
Our ambitions
Mid-teens RoTE extended We will consider using cost savings c.$1.5bn
During 2024, we announced our intention to generated through business disposals for
target a mid-teens RoTE1, excluding the incremental re-investment into our core
impact of notable items, for 2025. Alongside franchises. This would be in addition to our Annualised reduction in our cost base by the
our 2024 annual results, we have extended ongoing investments. end of 2026
this target to each of 2025, 2026 and 2027.
We will consider our cost and investment Capital generation 14-14.5%
Our business model is designed to be highly
plans within this framework.
capital generative. In 2024, our common
Simplification equity tier 1 (‘CET1’) capital ratio grew from
With our 2024 results, we have announced 14.8% to 14.9% as at 31 December 2024. CET1 capital ratio over the medium term
that we aim to generate approximately During the calendar year, we paid $5.5bn
$0.3bn of cost reductions in 2025, with a ordinary dividends with respect to 2024, we 50%
expect to pay a further $6.4bn through the
commitment to an annualised reduction of
fourth interim dividend and we expect to
$1.5bn in our cost base expected by the end
repurchase $11bn of our shares for
of 2026. These savings are primarily people- cancellation with respect to 2024. The capital Dividend payout ratio target basis1
related organisational design reductions, have
generated on the disposal of our Canadian
negligible impact on revenues and are aligned banking operations supported the $0.21 per
to the strategic reorganisation of the Group. share special dividend paid in 2Q24, 1 We do not reconcile our forward guidance on
representing a further $3.9bn distribution. RoTE excluding the impact of notable items,
We have simplified our businesses in our We aim to maintain a CET1 capital ratio in the target basis operating expenses, dividend payout
domestic markets, Hong Kong and the UK. range of 14 to 14.5% over the medium term. ratio target basis or banking NII to their
Our scale retail and commercial banking equivalent reported measures.
Our primary use of capital generation is to
platforms here will benefit from shorter lines
pay an ordinary dividend of 50% of profit
of decision making, empowering our
attributable to ordinary shareholders,
colleagues to get things done.
excluding material notable items and related
We plan to intensify successful partnerships impacts (our dividend payout ratio target
between our domestic markets and our basis1). Our preferred use of capital after
international franchises, CIB and IWPB, for paying the dividend is to support the growth
those clients with more complex and of our four businesses.
networked needs. Ensuring we continue to
In recent years, much of our income growth
provide the services and products our global
has come from capital-light income streams,
scale enables us to create is key to our
such as deposit revenue from higher interest
growth. We will continue to service Wealth
rates; and from fee income, notably in
clients; and internationally active commercial
Wealth. Our RWAs of $838.3bn at 31
and corporate clients in Hong Kong and the
December 2024 remained broadly stable
UK on an integrated basis.
compared with 31 December 2022.
Growth Combined with strategic actions, this enabled
We are focused on growth opportunities the Group to buy back 11% of its outstanding
within our strategy that play to our strengths, shares in two years, while reporting a CET1
while maintaining tight cost discipline and ratio rising from 14.2% to 14.9% over the
continuing to invest in growth and efficiency. two years.
We see growth opportunities in each of our
Should organic growth in any given year
four franchises. In CIB, these include further
require less incremental capital than the
expanding our international network
Group has retained after paying ordinary
businesses, notably transaction banking. In
dividends to our shareholders, we plan to
IWPB, we intend to particularly focus on
consider further share buy-backs.
building our successful wealth business,
especially in Asia. In Hong Kong, we intend to
support continued growth in non-resident
customer numbers and will seek to build on
our strong SME proposition. In the UK, we
see the opportunity to continue building our
mortgage franchise and build share in SME
banking.

[PAGE 17]

ESG overview
Our approach to environmental, social and governance is rooted in
creating long-term value for our customers and the economies that we serve.
Our approach
Our approach to ESG is focused on creating In our net zero transition plan published in there is no real benefit to society in simply
long-term value for our customers and wider January 2024, we committed to continually sending those customers to another
stakeholders. We focus our efforts on three calibrate our approach to take into consideration organisation that may be less committed to
areas: the transition to net zero, building the latest scientific methodologies, climate- supporting their transition.
inclusion and resilience, and acting related policy measures and developments in
As such, we are supporting both new and
responsibly. the real world given that our sector portfolios
existing customers that are making positive
reflect progress in the real economy in the
Our approach to the transition regions where we operate. As we near the mid- steps to transition to a net zero economy. We
Supporting the transition to net zero is a key continue to focus on engaging with our
point towards our 2030 targets, it is important
priority for HSBC. We believe the transition to customers on their transition plans,
to take stock of our own progress so far. We
net zero will help make the global economy considering our strategic business lines and
have made good progress in reducing the
stronger and more resilient against mounting markets, managing the products and services
emissions from our own operations but more
climate impacts. In October 2020, we we offer, and adapting the financing choices
uneven progress towards our ambitions for our
announced our ambition to become a net zero we make to help move the world towards a
financed emissions footprint.
bank by 2050. We believe supporting our resilient, net zero economy.
customers’ transition both benefits their Net zero in our own operations,
However, as we have set out in our net zero
business and helps generate long-term business travel and supply chain
transition plan, we must acknowledge that our
financial returns for our shareholders. In 2020, we set an ambition to reach net zero
influence on the decarbonisation of individual
in our operations and supply chain by 2030
Since we set our net zero ambition, collective companies and the industries and economies in
and we continue to make good progress in
global efforts have driven progress in some which our customers operate has limits. There
driving down our direct emissions, which are
vital areas of the decarbonisation challenge. are fundamental prerequisites, outside of our
largely derived from energy consumption. We
Billions of dollars have been allocated to clean control, which impact our ability to meet our
are currently on track to achieve a reduction
energy. Falling costs of renewables and 2030 interim financed emissions targets and
in our scope 1 and 2 emissions of more than
advancements in clean technologies have ultimately reach our net zero ambition. These
90% by 2030 compared with our 2019
accelerated their adoption. And while it is include technological advancements,
baseline, through a programme of energy
taking time for more nascent industries such diversification of the energy mix, market
efficiency initiatives and significant
as hydrogen, carbon capture and storage and demand for climate solutions, evolving
investment in renewable power. However,
sustainable aviation fuel to scale, with customer preferences, and government
progress in reducing emissions in the scope 3
supportive government policies and industrial leadership and effective policy.
supply chain component is proving slower
strategies their adoption can be accelerated,
than we anticipated, driven mainly by the
At the current pace of decarbonisation, a
and their costs reduced.
slower pace of the transition across the real
combination of the above factors has led to
economy.
We have always recognised that the the transition being slower than envisaged by
transition would not be linear. Yet while the recent Paris-aligned net zero scenarios.
It has become clear that we would need to
transition has progressed, the global pace of Moreover, certain high emitting sectors are
rely heavily on carbon offsets to achieve net
change remains insufficient. As the UN’s not yet currently on a 1.5°C pathway. Until
zero in our supply chain by 2030. This
latest Emission Gap report recently warned, the real economy makes significant progress
approach would not be aligned with recently
current government policies, conventional in decarbonising, our own progress towards
updated guidance from the Science Based
energy demand, clean technology adoption, our 2030 targets and 2050 net zero ambition
Targets Initiative on the role of offsets in
and wider consumption patterns are not yet will be constrained.
meeting corporate net zero claims.
aligned with the Paris Agreement goal of
Against this background, we have begun a
holding the temperature increase to well As such, we have revisited this ambition to
review of our interim financed emissions
below 2°C above pre-industrial levels and take into account latest best practice
targets and associated policies as part of the
pursuing efforts to limit the temperature guidance. We are now focused on cutting
annual review of our net zero transition plan
increase to 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels. emissions across our operations, travel and
that we referenced in our 3Q24 earnings
supply chain to achieve net zero by 2050. We
As a bank, our ability to finance our release in October. This analysis is complex:
expect to continue to report on our progress
customers’ transition and, in turn, progress it presents considerable data and
up to 2030 and beyond. Presently, across our
toward and meet our targets, relies on methodology challenges and it is going to
operations, business travel and supply chain,
decarbonisation solutions scaling across take time to complete.
we expect to achieve a reduction of around
sectors, alongside growing demand from our
40% in emissions by 2030.
As we calibrate our approach for the latest
customers for capital to transition their
context, we will seek to balance being
business models. Ambitious and credible Interim financed emissions targets
ambitious on net zero while recognising
governmental policy measures also remain Our strategy is to support emission
present near-term global challenges, and the
fundamental prerequisites for decarbonising reductions in the wider economy by working
associated impact of the transition playing out
the real economy at sufficient pace. We are with our portfolio of customers to facilitate
differently across the regions and sectors we
limited by, and cannot on our own overcome, the emission reductions they are seeking to
serve. In doing so we plan to draw on the
the present lag in policy measures and the make. That is what we consider when setting
latest scientific evidence and credible
overall slower pace of the transition. These financed emissions targets. To the extent our
industry-specific pathways while, at the same
factors put our customers’, and our own, net customers are facing challenges, especially in
time, maintaining our commitment under our
zero ambitions at risk. light of the slower pace of the transition,
2021 Climate Resolution.
Strategic
report

[PAGE 18]

Strategic Report
We have been clear on our commitment to Build inclusion and resilience In 2024 we updated our global philanthropy
being transparent on the risks, challenges and To help create long-term value for all strategy to align with our ESG areas of focus:
opportunities arising from our ambition to be stakeholders, we focus on fostering inclusion ‘transition to net zero’; and ‘building inclusion
net zero by 2050. As such, we intend to and building resilience for our colleagues, our and resilience’, allowing us to work alongside
provide the results of our review in our net customers and the communities we operate the communities we operate within to help
zero transition plan update, which we expect within. create change.
to be released in the second half of 2025.
For colleagues, we focus on creating an Act responsibly
We remain committed to net zero, inclusive, healthy and rewarding environment We are focused on operating a strong and
recognising it is a priority for our customers as this helps us to attract, develop and retain sustainable business that puts the customer
to support their growth and prosperity over the best talent, and we support their first, values good governance, and gives our
the long term. While no single actor can drive resilience through access to well-being and stakeholders confidence in how we do what
the transition alone, we will continue to learning resources. we do. Our conduct approach guides us to do
actively look for opportunities to support our the right thing and to focus on the impact we
We strive to provide an inclusive and
customers’ transition and engage in the have on our customers and the financial
accessible banking experience for our
ongoing efforts to achieve the goals of the markets in which we operate. Customer
customers. We do this by providing
Paris Agreement. experience is at the heart of how we operate.
resources that help them manage their
We aim to act responsibly and with integrity
finances, and services that help them protect
across the value chain.
what they value.
Engaging with our stakeholders and our material ESG topics
We know that engaging with our stakeholders is core to being a responsible business. To determine material topics that our stakeholders are
interested in, we conduct a number of activities throughout the year, including engagements outlined in the table below. Disclosure standards
such as the TCFD, World Economic Forum (‘WEF’) Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics and Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (‘SASB’), as
well as the ESG Guide under the Hong Kong Stock Exchange Listing Rules and other applicable rules and regulations, are considered as part of
the identification of material issues and disclosures.
Our stakeholders How we engage
Customers Our customers’ voices are heard through our everyday interactions Material topics highlighted through our
with them, customer surveys, listening to their complaints, and engagement1
online feedback through social media and third-party financial
– Customer advocacy
websites and forums.
– Cybersecurity
Employees Our colleagues’ voices are heard through our annual Snapshot
– Employee training
survey, exchange sessions, town hall meetings, leadership summits,
and our ‘speak-up’ channels, including our global whistleblowing – Inclusion
platform, HSBC Confidential. – Employee engagement
Investors We engage with our investors through our AGMs, virtual and in- – Supporting our customers – financed
person meetings, investor roadshows, conferences and investor emissions
surveys, seeking to respond to questions they raise and to convey
– Embedding net zero into the way we operate
their views to senior management.
– Sustainability risk policies, including thermal
Communities We regularly engage with non-governmental organisations (‘NGOs’), coal phase-out policy and energy policy
charities and civil society groups both directly and through cross-
– Net zero transition plan
industry forums, as well as through partnerships. Our Climate
Advisory Panel, comprising representatives from NGOs and industry – Financial inclusion and community investment
experts, provides independent advice and challenge.
– Climate risk
Regulators and We proactively engage with regulators, governments and – Anti-bribery and corruption
governments international leaders to build strong relationships, responding to
– Conduct and product responsibility
consultations via industry bodies to help shape our approach to
financed emissions methodologies, scenario analysis and portfolio – Supply chain management
alignment to support the transition to net zero in the global
– Human rights
economy.
Suppliers Our code of conduct sets out our expectations and the minimum
standards we expect from our suppliers on the environment,
diversity, and human rights. We have begun direct engagement with
our highest-emitting suppliers to understand their carbon reduction
targets and disclosure plans.
1 These form part of our ESG disclosures suite together with other requirements, and are not exhaustive or exclusive to one stakeholder group. For further details of
our disclosures, see our ESG review and ESG Data Pack, as well as our ESG reporting centre at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-business/esg-
reporting-centre.

[PAGE 19]

Our ESG ambitions, metrics and targets TCFD
We have established ambitions and targets To help us achieve our ESG ambitions, a In our previous disclosures and in our net
that guide how we do business, including number of measures are included in the zero transition plan we have highlighted the
how we operate and how we serve our annual incentive and long-term incentive risks, dependencies and uncertainties
customers. These include targets designed scorecards of the Group CEO, Group CFO associated with our approach and progress
to help track our progress against our and Group Executives that underpin the ESG towards our ESG ambitions. For further
environmental and social sustainability goals. metrics in the table below. details on our climate reporting, see the ESG
They also help us to improve employee review page 43.
For a summary of how all financial and non-
advocacy and the representation of senior
financial metrics link to executive The table below sets out some of the key
leadership, as well as strengthen our market
remuneration, see pages 296 to 308 of the ESG metrics we use to measure progress
conduct. The targets for these measures are
Directors’ remuneration report. against our ambitions. For further details of
linked to the pillars of our ESG strategy:
how we are doing, see the ESG review on
transition to net zero, building inclusion and
page 41.
resilience, and acting responsibly.
Environmental: Sustainable finance and
investment2 Net zero in our own operations3 Financed emissions4
Transition to net
1 $393.6bn 66.1% 7 sectors
zero
Cumulative total provided and Reduction in absolute operational Number of sectors where we have set
facilitated since 1 January 2020. greenhouse gas emissions from interim financed emissions targets,
(2023: $294.4bn) 2019 baseline. comprising five on-balance sheet and
Ambition: Provide and facilitate (2023: 57.3%) two combined financed emissions
$750bn to $1tn of sustainable Updated ambition: Become a net targets. Ambition: Align our financed
finance and investment by 2030. zero bank by 2050. emissions to achieve net zero by 2050.
Social: Gender representation5 Black heritage5 Inclusion Index7
Build inclusion 34.6% 3.0% 78%
and resilience
Senior leadership roles held by Senior leadership roles held by Black Inclusion index score. (2023: 78%)
women. (2023: 34.1%) heritage colleagues in the UK and US Ambition: Maintain 75% in the
Ambition: Achieve 35% senior combined. (2023: 3.0%) Snapshot Inclusion index.
leadership roles held by women Ambition: 3.4% of senior leadership
by 20256. roles held by Black heritage
colleagues in the UK and US
combined by 20256.
Governance: Conduct training8 Customer satisfaction9
Acting 99% 4 out of 6 3 out of 6
responsibly
Employees who completed WPB markets that sustained top- CMB markets that sustained top-
conduct training in 2024. three rank and/or improved in three rank and/or improved in
(2023: 98%) customer satisfaction. customer satisfaction.
Target: At least 98% of employees (2023: 3 out of 6) (2023: 5 out of 6)
complete conduct and financial Target: To be ranked top three and/or Target: To be ranked top three and/or
crime training each year. improve customer satisfaction rank. improve customer satisfaction rank.
1 For further details of our approach to transition to net zero, methodology and third-party limited assurance reports on financed emissions, sustainable finance and
investment progress, and our own operations’ scope 1, 2 and 3 (business travel and supply chain) greenhouse gas emissions data, see www.hsbc.com/who-we-
are/esg-and-responsible-business/esg-reporting-centre.
2 In October 2020, we announced our ambition to provide and facilitate between $750bn to $1tn of sustainable finance and investment by 2030. For further details
and breakdown, see the ESG review on page 45. For details of how this ambition links with the scorecards, see page 297.
3 This absolute greenhouse gas emission figure covers scope 1, scope 2 and scope 3 (business travel) emissions. For further details of how this ambition links with
the scorecards, see page 297.
4 See page 48 for further details of our interim targets, which include combined on-balance sheet financed emissions and facilitated emission targets for two
emissions intensive sectors: oil and gas, and power and utilities. The remaining five sectors for which we have set on-balance sheet financed emissions targets are:
cement; iron, steel and aluminium; aviation; automotive; and thermal coal mining.
5 Senior leadership is classified as those at band 3 and above in our global career band structure. For further details, see the ESG review on page 65. For further
details of how this ambition links with the scorecards, see page 297.
6 These numerical ambitions do not form part of any US-based senior leader performance or other objectives, or in other jurisdictions where application of such
should not apply under local law.
7 For further details, see the ESG review on page 67. For details of how this ambition links with the scorecards, see page 297.
8 The completion rate shown relates to the ‘Conduct Matters’ training module that was launched in December 2023 and concluded in 2024, and covers permanent
and non-permanent employees (where legally permissible to assign training). For completion rates related to financial crime training, see the ESG review on page 80.
9 The markets where we report rank positions for WPB and CMB – the UK, Hong Kong, mainland China, India, Mexico and Singapore – are in line with the annual
executive scorecards. For further details of customer satisfaction, see the ESG review on page 77. For further details of how this target links with the scorecards, see
page 297.
Strategic
report

[PAGE 20]

Strategic Report
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’) TCFD
The Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on periods up to 2026; medium term between data limitations, although nascent work is
Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’) 2027 and 2035; and long term between ongoing in these areas. We expect these
recommendations set an important 2036 and 2050. For financed emissions we data limitations to be addressed in the
framework for understanding and analysing do not plan to set 2026 targets. In 2024, we medium term as more reliable data
climate-related risks, and we are committed disclosed interim 2030 targets for financed becomes available and technology solutions
to regular and transparent reporting to help emissions for seven sectors as outlined on are implemented.
communicate and track our progress. We page 52. Following this, we have set
– We currently focus on disclosing only four
also seek to advocate for the same from our combined on-balance sheet financed
out of 15 categories of scope 3 greenhouse
customers, suppliers and the industry. emissions and facilitated emissions targets
gas emissions including business travel,
for two emissions intensive sectors: oil and
We have set out our key climate-related supply chain and financed emissions,
gas, and power and utilities. We have also
financial disclosures throughout the Annual following our internal materiality
set targets for on-balance sheet financed
Report and Accounts 2024 and related assessment. In relation to financed
emissions for the following five sectors:
disclosures. We recognise that further work emissions, we publish on-balance sheet
cement; iron, steel and aluminium; aviation;
lies ahead as we continue to develop our financed emissions for a number of sectors,
automotive; and thermal coal mining.
management and reporting capabilities. In covering 2.7% of our loans and advances to
2024, we enhanced our disclosures, such as – The methodology and data used for customers at 31 December 2023, as
the portfolio breakdown for Energy financed emissions is evolving. We expect detailed on page 56. We also publish
Performance Certificate (‘EPC’) ratings into industry guidance, market practice, data facilitated emissions for the oil and gas, and
owner-occupied and buy-to-let properties. availability, scenarios and regulatory power and utilities sectors. Data quality of
disclosure requirements to continue to future disclosures on financed emissions
We have considered our ‘comply or explain’ change, along with the shape of our own and related risks are reliant on our
obligation under both the UK Financial business. We have begun a review of our customers publicly disclosing their
Conduct Authority’s Listing Rules and 2030 financed emissions targets and greenhouse gas emissions, targets and
Sections 414CA and 414CB of the UK associated policies, as part of the annual plans, and related risks. We recognise the
Companies Act 2006, and confirm that we review of our NZTP that we referenced in need to provide early transparency on
have made disclosures consistent with the our 3Q24 earnings release in October. climate disclosures but balance this with the
TCFD Recommendations and Recommended recognition that existing data and reporting
– We do not fully disclose impacts from
Disclosures, including its annexes and processes continue to require significant
climate-related opportunities on financial
supplemental guidance, save for certain enhancements.
planning and performance, including on
items, which we summarise below.
revenue, costs and the balance sheet, For a full summary of our TCFD disclosures,
– We set interim 2030 financed emissions quantitative scenario analysis, detailed including detailed disclosure locations for
targets. However, we use different time climate risk exposures for all sectors and additional information, see pages 444 to 450.
horizons for climate risk management. For geographies or physical risk metrics. This is
climate risk, we define short term as time due to transitional challenges in relation to
ESG disclosure map and directory
The table below sets out the key non-financial information, including risks and policies on environmental, social and governance matters, and
where it can be found:
Transition to At a glance Read more on our approach to the transition and Page 42
net zero understanding our climate reporting
Supporting our customers Read more on our progress made against our $750bn to Page 45
$1tn sustainable finance and investment ambition
Partnering for systemic change Read more on how we partner externally in support of Page 47
systemic change, including an update on our Climate
Solutions Partnership
Embedding net zero Read more on our progress made against our ambition to Page 48
achieve net zero in our financed emissions by 2050
Read more on our progress in decarbonising our own Page 58
operations and supply chain
Read more on our sustainability risk policies and our Page 61
thermal coal exposures
Detailed Task Force on Climate-related We make disclosures consistent with Task Force on Climate- Page 444
Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’) related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’) recommendations,
highlighted with the symbol: TCFD
Build Inclusion disclosures Read more on how we are building an inclusive Page 63
inclusion and environment that reflects our customers and communities,
resilience Pay gap disclosures and our latest pay gap statistics Page 65
Act How we govern ESG Read more on our approach to ESG governance and Page 74
responsibly Human rights disclosures human rights Page 75
How our ESG ambitions link to Read more on our ESG ambitions embedded in executive Page 17
executive remuneration remuneration Pages 284 to 300
ESG Data Detailed ESG information Our ESG Data Pack provides more granular ESG www.hsbc.com/esg
Pack information, including the breakdown of our sustainable
finance and investment progress, and complaints volumes

[PAGE 21]

Responsible business culture
We have a responsibility to help protect our The table below outlines high-level Human rights
customers, our communities and the integrity representation metrics. As set out in our Human Rights Statement, we
of the financial system. recognise the role of business in respecting
All employees human rights. Our approach is guided by the
E W m e p a l r o e y b e u e il d m in a g t t a e r r e s s ponsible business culture Male 48.8% UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human
Rights (‘UNGPs’) and the OECD Guidelines for
that values difference, takes responsibility,
Female 51.2% Multinational Enterprises on Responsible
seeks different perspectives and upholds good
Business Conduct. Our Human Rights
standards of conduct. Senior leadership1 Statement and annual statements under the
UK Modern Slavery Act, are available on
There may be times when our colleagues need Male 65.4% www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-
to speak up about behaviours in the workplace
responsible-business/esg-reporting-centre. For
and in the first instance we encourage Female 34.6%
further details of our approach, see the
colleagues to speak to their line manager. Our
annual employee survey showed that 85% of Holdings Board ‘Human rights’ section of the ESG review on
page 75.
colleagues have trust in their direct manager.
Male 46.2%
HSBC Confidential is our whistleblowing
Anti-corruption and anti-bribery
channel, which allows colleagues past and
Female 53.8% We are required to comply with all applicable
present to raise concerns confidentially and, if
anti-bribery and corruption laws in every
preferred, anonymously (subject to local laws). 1 Senior leadership is classified as those at band 3 market and jurisdiction in which we operate.
Our Snapshot survey showed that 80% of and above in our global career band structure. We seek to focus on the spirit of relevant laws
colleagues feel able to speak up when they see For further details of how we look after our
and regulations to demonstrate our
behaviours they consider to be wrong. people, including our inclusion ambitions, how
commitment to ethical behaviours and
we encourage our employees to speak up, and
Our inclusion index measures our colleagues’ our approach to employee conduct, see the conduct as part of our environmental, social
sense of belonging and psychological safety Social section of the ESG review on page 63. and corporate governance.
within the organisation, and in 2024 this
Listening to our customers Environmental matters
remained unchanged at 78%.
We continue to listen, learn and act on our For details of our climate ambition and carbon
To help address under-representation across customers’ feedback. We use the net emission metrics, see the ESG review on
our colleague base, we have an ambition to promoter system to share customer feedback page 42.
achieve a 35% representation of women in with our front-line teams, allowing them to
senior leadership roles (classified as those at respond directly to customers. We also have Group non-financial and sustainability
band 3 and above in our global career band dedicated global forums to promote ongoing information statement
structure) by 20251. We remain on track, improvement of our customers’ experience. This section primarily covers Group non-
having achieved 34.6% in 2024. financial and sustainability information as
Social matters
required by applicable regulations. Other
We have an ambition to increase our Black We aim to help provide people and related information can be found as follows:
heritage senior leader representation in both the communities with the skills and knowledge
UK and US combined to 3.4% by 20251. In 2024 needed to thrive through the transition to a For further details of our key performance
we maintained our position at 3.0%. sustainable future. For this reason, we focus indicators, see page 1.
our support on programmes that help build For further details of our business model, see
Our hiring practices are merit-based, and we inclusion and resilience. We also support page 4.
seek to ensure that every candidate, regardless climate solutions and innovation, and For further details of our principal risks and
of their identity and background, has an equal contribute to disaster relief. For examples of how they are managed, see pages 37 to 39.
opportunity to demonstrate their skill and our programmes, see the ‘Engaging with our For further details of our TCFD disclosures,
potential. We have identified specific Group- communities’ section of the ESG review on including alignment with sections 414CA and
wide priorities, which we track and monitor page 72. 414CB of the Companies Act 2006, see pages
progress against. We adapt implementation of 444 to 450.
our strategy across international operations to
ensure it remains relevant locally. We have
enabled 93% of our colleagues to disclose their
ethnicity, with 67% currently choosing to do so,
where this is legally permissible.
1 These numerical ambitions do not form part of
any US-based senior leader performance or other
objectives, or in other jurisdictions where
application of such should not apply under local
law.
Helping to boost reforestation in the Amazon basin
We acted as sole bookrunner and structuring bank for the World Bank’s $225m, 9-year
principal-protected Amazon reforestation-linked outcome bond, their largest outcome bond
issued to date. Under this bond, up to $36m of capital will be mobilised to support
reforestation activities undertaken by Mombak, the Brazilian project sponsor. Mombak intends
to use these funds to reforest degraded land with native tree species, and in doing so seek to
generate carbon removal credits.
This transaction is the first ever carbon removal credit-backed financing in international debt
capital markets. It represents a new, blended finance solution to help lower the cost of capital
for highly capital-intensive, nature-based solutions.
Strategic
report

[PAGE 22]

Strategic Report
Board decision making and
engagement with stakeholders
The Board is committed to effective engagement with our
stakeholders and seeks to understand their interests and the
impacts on them when making decisions.
Section 172(1) statement
The Board recognises the importance of directly where practicable and ensuring the the Companies Act 2006 when discharging
engaging with stakeholders effectively to outcomes of engagement activities were their duty to promote the success of the
ensure their interests and priorities are reported to the Board. Further details of the company. It includes examples of principal
understood and given due consideration in Board’s engagement with stakeholders are decisions taken by the Board and how
Board discussions and decision-making. In set out below. Our section 172(1) statement relevant stakeholder impacts were
2024, the Directors took part in a is set out on pages 20 to 23 and describes considered as part of the Board’s decision-
comprehensive stakeholder engagement how the Directors have had regard to the making.
programme, meeting with stakeholders matters set out in section 172(1) (a) to (f) of
Directors’ engagements with key stakeholders in 2024
Stakeholders Engagement Impact and outcomes
Customers – Meetings with key customers in various regions – Continued engagement with customers around the world helped
We recognise that the and engagement events with business customers to further the Board’s understanding of their respective needs,
greater our understanding of to discuss challenges and opportunities in their including how the Group can support customers to achieve their
our customers’ needs, the relevant markets. varied goals, including during their transition to net zero.
better we can help support – Introductory meetings between the new Group – Customer surveys provided insights into how the Group can drive
them to achieve their CEO and key clients across global markets. meaningful improvements in outcomes for customers.
financial aims and succeed in – Regular reports to the Board on customer – Reports from management highlight where there are
our purpose and strategy. matters, including operational resilience, opportunities for innovation and collaboration with our customers
customer experiences across the Group and
and support the Board’s oversight of Group activities to ensure
results of retail customer surveys, including
such innovations are aligned with Group risk appetite and strategic
changes to net promoter scores.
objectives.
Employees – Regular internal communications and – Meeting with colleagues across jurisdictions allowed Directors to
We want to continue to be a presentations from the Group CEO and Group hear first-hand views on important issues, including inclusion
positive place to work and CFO to keep the workforce informed of business matters, talent development and the employee experience.
build careers, with the performance, and leadership and other – Workforce engagements and interactions helped to ensure
success of the Group’s
organisational changes. continued connectivity between the Board and the workforce,
strategy dependent upon
having motivated people – Employee events, including leadership forums, inform Board discussions and decision making and enhance
with the expertise and skills webcasts, town halls, off-sites and employee understanding of the Group culture across different geographies.
required to deliver it. exchange sessions, as well as events that form Such engagements also help enable the Board to put into
part of the workforce engagement programme led perspective employee Snapshot survey results and monitor
by the dedicated workforce engagement non- activity in response to matters raised.
executive Director, including visits to several – Directors taking part in the Bank Director Programme shared their
Global Service Centres. experiences and knowledge with the employees enrolled to
– Participation in sessions with senior leaders in qualify as Group subsidiary directors. Such sessions provided
multiple jurisdictions to discuss Group participants with the opportunity to ask questions and
performance and strategy, including a global town demonstrate how good governance practices are embedded
hall co-hosted by the Group CEO for global throughout the Group. Following the success of this programme,
sustainability colleagues to discuss sustainability a second Director-sponsored development programme launched
matters. in November 2024, aimed at prospective and existing employee
– Interaction with leads of employee resource subsidiary chairs.
groups and participation at multiple events in – Internal communications by executive Directors helped increase
many jurisdictions. awareness among the workforce of Group performance and
significant developments during the year, including changes to
executive leadership and the organisational structure. This
engagement aims to promote better understanding of and
engagement with the Group’s strategic aims across the
workforce. Employee engagement with Group strategy is
monitored through annual Snapshot surveys, the results of which
are presented to the Board.

[PAGE 23]

Stakeholders Engagement Impact and outcomes
Investors – The Group Chairman and the Group CEO held a – Regular interactions with institutional and retail investors
We seek to understand Q&A session with retail shareholders at the annual throughout the year helped the Board to understand investor
investor needs and Informal Shareholders’ Meeting in Hong Kong. sentiment regarding material matters such as strategy delivery
sentiment through ongoing – As part of the hybrid 2024 AGM, shareholders were and outlook, transition to net zero, and to gauge investors’
dialogue and a variety of
able to ask questions of the Board during the continued support for the Group.
engagements with both
retail and institutional meeting, either virtually or in person. – Q&A sessions at analyst and investor briefings and meetings with
investors. – Directors attended the inaugural HSBC Global Directors and senior management provide investors with the
Investment Summit held in Hong Kong in April opportunity to learn more about the Group’s strategic direction
2024, at which the Group Chairman and Group CEO and offered the Board insight into investor priorities and areas of
also presented. interest.
– The Group Chairman and the Senior Independent – The outcomes of targeted engagement at management level on
Director met with a number of large institutional key topics of investor interest were reported to the Board to help
investors. enable its continued monitoring of responses to key matters of
– The Group CEO and the Group CFO, together and strategic importance, which during the year has included our first
separately, attended meetings with investors. net zero transition plan and financial targets.
– In addition to routine meetings with top investors – For details of the Group Remuneration Committee Chair’s
and proxy advisors, the Group Remuneration engagements with key investors and proxy advisory firms, and
Committee Chair led a consultation with how they were taken into account by the Group Remuneration
shareholders on proposed updates to the Directors’ Committee in its decision making and in the development of the
Remuneration Policy, which will be put to Directors’ Remuneration Policy, see the Directors’ remuneration
shareholder vote at the 2025 AGM. report on pages 279 to 317.
– The Group Chairman and the Group CEO and Group – Building on the success of the inaugural HSBC Global Investment
CFO presented the interim and year-end results to Summit, a second summit has been scheduled to take place in
analysts and investors and engaged in Q&A 2025. The summit provides a forum for open and frank exchange
sessions. of thoughts and ideas between world-class experts, political
leaders, institutional investors and top decision-makers.
Communities – Directors met with an environmental non-profit – Meetings with charitable partners enabled the Directors to better
We seek to play an organisation affiliated with WWF to discuss the understand the Group’s impact within local communities as an
important role in supporting Group’s ongoing partnership arrangements. employer, sponsor, collaborator and supporter.
the communities in which – Director attendance at summits to facilitate – These engagements provided opportunities for Directors to learn
we operate through our
engagement with philanthropic partners and civil from and engage in an exchange of knowledge and ideas with
corporate social
responsibility and broader society on issues relevant to our communities, subject-matter experts in areas including nature conservation,
engagement activities. such as the World Economic Forum, Abu Dhabi sustainable aviation fuel and carbon reduction solutions. These in
Sustainability Week and New York Climate Week. turn, give context for Board decision-making on sustainability
– Meetings with members of the Sustainable matters and inform discussions about the Group’s own net zero
Markets Initiative Council to discuss priorities and ambitions.
opportunities.
Regulators and – Various meetings across our key markets with – Frequent and varied engagements between the Board and heads
governments heads of state, international leaders and of state, international leaders, government officials and regulators
Maintaining constructive government officials. provided an opportunity for open dialogue on matters of regulatory
dialogue and relations with – Regular meetings with and presentations from our interest and strategic importance.
the relevant authorities in regulators, including the PRA and FCA, as well as – Through meetings with international officials, and at presentations
the markets in which we
introductory meetings with the newly appointed given by the Group Chairman, Group CEO and other senior leaders
operate helps support the
achievement of our strategic Group CEO. at regulatory forums, Directors were able to communicate the
aims. – Presentations made by the Group Chairman and Group’s strategy, perspectives and insights while helping to
Group CEO at regulatory forums. ensure that they remained abreast of political and regulatory
– Targeted outreach to key international regulatory developments. It also allowed the Board opportunities to share
bodies and government officials on key topics of perspectives on industry best practices.
regulatory and community interest, including our – Regular reports from management enabled the Board to monitor
net zero transition, changes to executive leadership the Group’s responses to geopolitical and regulatory changes and
and geopolitical matters. ensure that appropriate resources and controls are in place. Such
– Regular reports and updates to the Board from reports are critical to ensuring that the Board continues to
management regarding regulatory and political understand and meet its regulatory obligations, and also provide
developments relevant to the Group. valuable context to the Board’s strategic discussions.
Suppliers – Regular reports were provided to the Board from – Meeting with our suppliers helped the Directors understand our
We engage with suppliers, the Group Chief Operating Officer which included suppliers’ challenges, where there are opportunities for
which helps us operate our outcomes of engagement with suppliers and collaboration and innovation and where there are opportunities
business effectively and
updates on supplier risks and priorities across the within our own operations.
execute our strategy.
Group. – Management reports enabled the Board, supported by the Group
– Meetings with key suppliers to discuss how Risk Committee, to monitor management of third-party risk, the
technology solutions may be enhanced through AI delivery of the Group data programme, and to ensure that
and data and opportunities for innovation, sustainable capabilities are in place for delivery of the Group’s
particularly in the areas of improving customer strategic objectives.
experience, risk management and operational – It is important for the Board to understand the Group’s supply
resilience, and regulatory compliance. chain and how suppliers’ operations align to our values and codes
of conduct. Board reports on such matters, and on the outcomes
of supplier engagements, provide context and support the Board’s
understanding when reviewing and approving the annual
statement under the UK Modern Slavery Act.
Strategic
report

[PAGE 24]

Strategic Report
Principal strategic decisions
The Board is responsible for setting and To enable the Board to operate effectively in template requires authors to, among other
monitoring execution against the Group this regard, good governance practices have things, describe any steps taken or to be
strategy. When taking principal decisions in been adopted and are implemented in the taken, to engage with relevant stakeholders,
2024, the Directors considered the likely course of Board meetings administration. explain the extent to which stakeholders are,
short- and long-term consequences of the Governance features as an agenda item at all or will be impacted by the matter under
decision, how it aligned with our strategic scheduled Board meetings. Papers presented consideration, and how this has influenced
priorities, and any other relevant matters, to the Board for its consideration are the recommendation to the Board. The
including those arising under section 172(1) expected to follow a template to help ensure following pages describe some examples of
of the Companies Act 2006, in accordance that Directors have the appropriate how the Board operated during the year with
with their duties. information to take informed decisions. The regard to the matters under sections 172(1)
(a) – (f) of the Companies Act 2006 in the
course of taking principal strategic decisions.
Executive Director Changes
In April 2024, the Group announced that Sir In July 2024, the Board announced its The Board, together with the Nomination &
Noel Quinn would be retiring from his role as decision to appoint Georges Elhedery, then Corporate Governance Committee, undertook a
Group CEO and the Board began a formal Group CFO, as Group CEO. In determining further executive search process to appoint a
process to appoint a successor. As Group that Georges Elhedery was the right successor to the role of Group CFO. Following
CEO, Sir Noel Quinn drove a transformative candidate for the role, the Board took into Board approval, it was announced in July 2024
phase for the bank, leading the execution of account his exceptional leadership and that Jonathan Bingham would be appointed as
its revenue repositioning and overall proven track record of leading through interim Group CFO, with effect from 2
simplification through disposal of non-core change, driving growth, delivering September 2024, to provide strategic leadership
assets. In making the decision to appoint a simplification, prudent risk management and and continuity during the search for a permanent
new Group CEO, the Board had in mind the cost discipline. Georges has extensive candidate. In October 2024, the company
overall strategic direction and desired culture international experience and during his time announced that Pam Kaur, then Group Chief
of the Group and the skills and experience at HSBC has developed strong and Risk and Compliance Officer, would be
required to navigate the next phase of growth productive relationships with various appointed as Group CFO with effect from 1
and development. stakeholders, evidenced through positive January 2025. In taking this appointment
feedback received from analysts, investors decision, the Board took into consideration
The Board takes a long-term view to
and colleagues. Pam’s strong technical expertise and
succession planning and keeps this under
appreciation of the global challenges facing the
continual review, supported by the dedicated The Board’s decision to appoint Georges in
Group, and the banking industry more broadly,
work of the Nomination & Corporate the role of Group CEO was further influenced
together with her reputation within HSBC.
Governance Committee. Upon confirmation by his clear and ambitious vision of HSBC’s
of Sir Noel Quinn’s retirement, a formal ability to deliver for its customers, investors, Throughout the executive Director
executive search process was undertaken, employees and communities with a strong appointment processes, both the Board and
supported by an external executive search focus on execution. Since his appointment, the Nomination & Corporate Governance
agency and led by the Nomination & Georges has prioritised meetings with Committee oversaw engagement with
Corporate Governance Committee. The customers, employees and other regulators and the necessary regulatory
search process considered internal and stakeholders in HSBC’s home markets as approval processes. See the Nomination &
external candidates with the depth of well as key growth areas to continue to Corporate Governance Committee Report on
knowledge and understanding required to develop these relationships in his new role. page 259 for further information about the
lead an organisation with the global scale and appointment and induction process of the
complex nature of HSBC. Group CEO and the Group CFO respectively,
and the Board’s succession planning activities.
Group Strategy
Over the last five years, the Group has The Board receives regional strategic updates international network, and further contributed
repositioned its portfolio away from non-core from management to inform its to earnings volatility when its results were
markets and directed revenue into higher understanding of business performance and converted to USD. Consideration was given
growth areas. Through meetings with, and alignment with long-term Group strategy. to regulatory matters, the impacts of a sale
regular updates from senior management During the year, and following conclusion of on our employees and customers, particularly
across the Group, the Board continues to the sale of HSBC Bank Canada, the Board the impacts of migration and continuity of
monitor strategic execution and alignment endorsed a number of transactions to further services, and it was concluded that the
over geographical and business areas, the Group’s core ambitions. One such prospective buyer was well positioned to take
including in the context of changing transaction was the sale of the Group’s the business forward. The Board also took
geopolitical and macroeconomic factors, with business in Argentina. A strategic review of the decision to explore the sale of the
due regard to the impacts of its operations on the business was undertaken which Group’s private banking business in Germany,
stakeholders. The Board took time during the considered whether it supported our strategy in alignment with the Group’s strategic
year to consider strategic key performance for international expansion and growth. direction. Following a review, it was noted
indicators and the Group CEO provided that the German business was primarily
The review concluded that HSBC Argentina,
regular updates and progress reports on focused on domestic clients and had not
as a largely domestically-focused business,
these. been integrated into the Global Private
had limited connectivity with the Group’s
Banking business more widely. It was

[PAGE 25]

Group Strategy continued
determined that, to maintain focus on Global have indicated that employees want to be During the year, the Board looked closely at
Private Banking’s strategic objectives and empowered to get things done, which is one formulating the right organisational structure
prioritise focus on our international of our core values. This feedback, together to create a transparent and accountable
connectivity to scale growth in alignment with the Board’s ongoing monitoring of leadership team and has overseen significant
with our strategy, it would be favourable for customer needs, helped inform the Board’s changes to the Group Executive Committee
the business to enter into an arrangement consideration of the new structure, with its (‘GEC’) and approved several key
with an organisation better placed to grow key aims: to simplify and improve internal appointments. In conjunction with the wider
and invest in the business. The Board decision-making processes and business simplification, from 1 January 2025,
supported a sale of the private banking accountability; and enable colleagues to be the Board endorsed that the 18 member GEC
business to a suitable buyer. better positioned to serve our customers would be replaced by a new Group Operating
quickly and effectively. Committee comprised of 12 members, which
Following Georges Elhedery’s appointment
will serve as the leading executive decision-
as Group CEO, he has been focused on The Board further considered the impacts of
making committee for the Group. In taking
driving a more streamlined and dynamic organisational changes on employees and our
the decision to approve this change, the
organisational structure to enable the Board relationships with customers, investors and
Board had regard to the governance and
and management to execute at pace. During regulators. The new structure will help foster
oversight requirements of the Group, and the
the year, the Board provided oversight and clearer communication, empower teams, and
likely impacts on employees and customers
challenge to management on plans to reduce the complexity of reporting lines, with
and our ongoing commitments to our
accelerate the delivery of this strategy. In a focus on improving the employee
regulators.
October 2024, the Board approved a experience at the Group and ultimately
simplification of the Group’s organisational providing better outcomes for our customers The Board has further reviewed the
structure, to take effect from 1 January 2025, and communities. The Board will oversee and Committee structure and identified areas of
in order to create a more agile business that monitor the implementation of the new improvement, leading to the creation of a
makes it easier for colleagues to achieve best organisational structure and its impacts over new Board Sustainability Working Group
in class service for our customers, and drive the course of 2025. (‘SWG’) (see page 249), changes to the
the future success of the Group for the Group’s Technology and Operations
As HSBC accelerates delivery of its strategy,
benefit of all our stakeholders over the long Committee (see page 276) and combining of
the Board has also given considerable
term. the ESG Committee and Sustainability
thought to how to optimise the Group’s
Execution Committee (see page 249) as
As part of its meetings, the Board monitors governance and leadership structure, while
explained in further detail below.
the results of the annual employee Snapshot continuing to generate sustainable returns
survey and receives regular updates on and maintain a reputation for high standards
customer initiatives and priorities from across of business conduct.
the Group. Annual Snapshot survey results
Sustainability
The Board is responsible for setting the In recognition of the complexity of the As part of the Board’s aim to simplify and
Group’s ESG strategy and takes a direct and sustainability landscape and real-world optimise the Group’s governance and
active role in monitoring the Group’s progress transition challenges, the Board established leadership frameworks, the Board also
towards its ESG ambitions. ESG remains an the SWG, comprised of five non-executive reviewed the effectiveness of the executive
important area of focus for the Board, and Directors and supported by members of level ESG governance structure and
ESG matters were considered at most of its executive management, including the Group associated reporting to the Board. Following
meetings during the course of the year. An CEO and Group CFO. This working group has this review, in 2024 the Board endorsed the
ESG dashboard is presented to the Board an initial remit to provide oversight and rationalisation of the ESG Committee and
regularly, which contains key metrics to help guidance in relation to the Group’s Sustainability Execution Committee into a
the Board monitor progress against the sustainability activities, including the targets single governance body, the ‘ESG
Group’s ESG ambitions and drive informed and timelines set out in the net zero transition Committee’. The newly constituted ESG
discussions and decision making. plan, key sustainability risk policies and Committee continues to report to the new
communication with key stakeholder groups. Group Operating Committee, with escalation
In January 2024, the Group published its first
The SWG provides strategic input and of matters to the SWG or the Board, as
net zero transition plan which outlines the
guidance as appropriate and its areas of focus appropriate. This consolidation allows for
proposed steps for delivering the Group’s
and priority are kept under review as needed. greater Board oversight of significant ESG
ambition to align its financing portfolio to net
The SWG is actively involved in the and sustainability matters, and more
zero by 2050. Since its publication, the Board
consideration of our approach to net zero streamlined reporting of key matters up to
has been informed of feedback from
transition, covered in more detail within our Board level.
customers, investors and shareholder groups,
ESG update on page 3 and our ESG overview
and government officials, all of which have
on page 15.
provided valuable context to Board
discussions on the progress and
development of its sustainability agenda.
Strategic
report

[PAGE 26]

Strategic Report
Remuneration
Our remuneration policy supports the achievement of our strategic objectives
by aligning reward with our long-term sustainable performance.
Remuneration for our executive Directors
At the 2025 Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’), The Committee reflected on the appropriate 2024 remuneration decisions
we will be seeking shareholder approval for a maximum opportunity for the Group CEO and The Committee considered carefully the
new executive Director remuneration policy. Group CFO considering (i) the maximum wider context in which performance was
opportunity in 2014; (ii) market data for our delivered in 2024 and judged that the overall
Over several years, the Group Remuneration
international banking peers and the largest scorecard outcome for both Sir Noel Quinn
Committee has expressed concerns around
FTSE 30 companies, reflecting that HSBC is and Georges Elhedery was appropriate
the competitiveness of the executive Director
one of the world’s leading international banks; against the targets set at the start of the year
remuneration opportunity and indicated a
and (iii) compression challenges within the for financial, strategic and personal measures.
preference to operate a policy with a higher
senior HSBC team.
proportion of the package based on variable The Committee also carefully considered the
pay linked to performance, aligned to practice We will continue to set a scorecard of executive Directors’ pay outcomes in the
among our international peers. stretching and quantitative financial and context of pay decisions made for the wider
strategic performance targets aligned to our workforce and determined that these were
The removal of the limits on the ratio between
strategy and stakeholder interests. Maximum an appropriate reflection of Group, business
fixed and variable pay by the UK regulators
pay outcomes will be delivered only for and individual performance delivered in 2024.
provides an opportunity to revisit our current
exceptional performance as required by these
Directors’ remuneration policy and the targets. Executive Directors’ scorecard outcomes
Committee feels that now is the right time to (% of maximum opportunity)
set a policy that better reflects the Group’s The Committee engaged with major investors
focus on long-term sustainable performance. on the new remuneration policy and the Chair 2024 annual incentive
of the Committee met with many shareholders Sir Noel Quinn 77.81%
After careful consideration, the Committee
directly. Shareholders we spoke to were Georges Elhedery 78.79%
concluded that the current variable pay
generally supportive of our proposal and their
framework of an annual incentive and single
feedback has directly influenced the final
performance-based long-term incentive is most 2022–2024 long-term incentive
policy. We would like to thank our shareholders
appropriate. The Committee considered the for the time taken to engage with us during the Sir Noel Quinn 75.00%
right approach is to unwind the changes made
year. Georges Elhedery 75.00%
in 2014, when the 2:1 pay ratio was introduced
and to reset the maximum opportunity. For details of our proposed executive Director For details of Directors’ pay and performance for
remuneration policy, see page 284. 2024, see the Directors’ remuneration report on
page 296.
Remuneration for our colleagues
Our focus remains on taking actions that Recognising colleagues’ success Variable pay pool
improve our ability to attract, retain and We introduced new performance routines ($m)
energise colleagues to deliver high and changes to performance assessment for
performance and growth. over 200,000 colleagues in 58 markets.
2024 3,800
Rewarding colleagues responsibly We also introduced a new variable pay
2023 3,774
Fixed pay increases for 2025 were structure for over 150,000 colleagues,
determined based on consistent principles to providing more clarity around variable pay
For details of how the Group Remuneration
help address wage inflation in the markets levels for on-target performance, and how
Committee sets the pool, see page 283.
where we operate. this is impacted by Group, business and
individual performance. Supporting colleagues to grow
We will award an average global fixed pay
In our employee Snapshot survey, 78% of
increase of 3.6% in 2025, compared with The Group Remuneration Committee
respondents said they believe HSBC
4.4% for the previous year, reflecting that determined overall variable pay of $3,800m
genuinely cares about their well-being, a
projected wage inflation is lower in many of (2023: $3,774m). This followed a review of
record high. We have been ranked number
our markets. our performance against financial and non-
one for workplace mental health for the third
financial metrics set out in the Group risk
We continue to review all wages globally year running in the Global CCLA Corporate
framework. Our highest performers received
against local Living Wage benchmarks to help Mental Health Benchmark 2024. We have
the largest increases in variable pay
ensure we pay responsibly and provide prioritised supporting colleagues to work
compared with the previous year.
financial security to colleagues. We are proud flexibly, balancing customer needs, social
to have been certified by the Fair Wage connection and individual flexibility.
Network as a global Living Wage employer
for 2025.

[PAGE 27]

Financial overview
In assessing the Group’s financial performance, management uses a range
of financial measures that focus on the delivery of sustainable returns for
our shareholders and maintaining our financial strength.
Executive summary
We delivered a strong performance in 2024 target in each of the three years from 2025 to The Group financial results that follow provide
with reported profit before tax of $32.3bn, up 2027, excluding notable items. more detailed insight into the performance
$2.0bn or 6% compared with 2023. Our that has driven the outcomes of our financial
This section sets out our key Group financial
financial performance demonstrates the targets. It covers income statement
targets and the progress we made towards
progress against our strategic priorities. performance on both a reported and constant
these in 2024, and our expectations for 2025
currency basis, and the main factors impacting
In 2024, we achieved a return on average and beyond. We also include a more detailed
the strength of our balance sheet, capital and
tangible equity (‘RoTE’) of 14.6% and a RoTE table covering further key financial metrics that
liquidity position.
excluding notable items of 16.0%. We have we consider insightful for understanding the
now further extended our mid-teens RoTE Group’s performance.
Group financial targets
Return on average tangible equity Target basis operating expenses Capital and dividend policy
excluding notable items CET1 ratio
16.0% $32.6bn 14.9%
(2023: 16.2%) (2023: $31.1bn)
Dividend payout ratio in respect of 2024
In 2024, RoTE was 14.6%, in line with 2023. In 2024, reported operating expenses 50%
increased by 3.0% compared with 2023.
For the purposes of measuring performance Target basis operating expense growth was
against our Group target, we adjust RoTE to 5.1% compared with 2023, in line with our on a dividend payout ratio target basis.
exclude notable items. From 1 January 2024, target of approximately 5%. Growth primarily
we revised the adjustments made to RoTE reflected higher investment spend, including in At 31 December 2024, our CET1 capital ratio
from excluding only the impact of strategic technology and from inflationary pressures. was 14.9% which was higher than our
transactions and the impairment of BoCom, to
medium-term target range of 14% to 14.5%.
exclude all notable items. This was intended to Our target basis operating expenses for 2024
We intend to continue to manage the CET1
improve alignment with the treatment of excluded the direct cost impact of the disposals
ratio to within this range.
notable items in our other income statement in France and Canada from the 2023 baseline. It
disclosures. RoTE excluding notable items has is measured on a constant currency basis and The total dividend per share in 2024 of $0.87
been re-presented for 2023 on the revised excludes notable items and the impact of included a special dividend of $0.21 per share
basis and we no longer disclose RoTE retranslating the prior year results of that was paid in June following the completion
excluding strategic transactions and the hyperinflationary economies at constant currency. of the sale of HSBC Bank Canada. On a
impairment of BoCom. dividend payout ratio target basis, this resulted
We retain a Group-wide focus on cost
in a payout ratio of 50% of earnings per share.
RoTE excluding notable items was 16.0%, a discipline. We are targeting growth in target
For the purposes of computing our target basis
decrease of 0.2 percentage points compared basis operating expenses of approximately
dividend payout ratio, we exclude from
with 2023. 3% in 2025 compared with 2024. Our target
dividends per share the special dividend of
basis operating expenses for 2025 excludes
We are now targeting a mid-teens RoTE in the direct cost impact of the business $0.21 per share, and we exclude from earnings
each of the three years from 2025 to 2027 disposals in Canada and Argentina, notable per share material notable items and related
excluding notable items. items and the impact of retranslating the prior impacts. See page 121 for our calculation of
earnings per share.
year results of hyperinflationary economies at
Our targets and expectations reflect our
current outlook for the global macroeconomic constant currency. The Board has established a target basis
environment and market-dependent factors, Our cost target includes the impact of dividend payout ratio of 50% for 2025,
such as market-implied interest rates as of mid- simplification-related savings associated with subject to meeting capital requirements. This
January 2025 and rates of foreign exchange, as our announced reorganisation, which aims to policy is designed to provide sustainable cash
well as customer behaviour and activity levels. generate approximately $0.3bn of cost dividends, while retaining the flexibility to
invest and grow the business, supplemented
reductions in 2025, with a commitment to an
by additional shareholder distributions, if
annualised reduction of $1.5bn in our cost
appropriate.
base expected by the end of 2026. To deliver
these reductions, we plan to incur severance
and other up-front costs of $1.8bn over 2025
and 2026, which will be classified as notable
items.
Strategic
report

[PAGE 28]

Strategic Report
Key financial metrics
For the year ended 31 Dec
Reported results 2024 2023 2022
Profit before tax ($m) 32,309 30,348 17,058
Profit after tax ($m) 24,999 24,559 16,249
Revenue ($m) 65,854 66,058 50,620
Cost efficiency ratio (%) 50.2 48.5 64.6
Net interest margin (%) 1.56 1.66 1.42
Basic earnings per share ($) 1.25 1.15 0.72
Diluted earnings per share ($) 1.24 1.14 0.72
Dividend per ordinary share (in respect of the period) ($)1 0.87 0.61 0.32
Dividend payout ratio (%)2 50 50 44
Alternative performance measures
Constant currency profit before tax ($m) 32,309 29,903 16,302
Constant currency revenue ($m) 65,854 64,912 49,587
Constant currency cost efficiency ratio (%) 50.2 48.5 65.0
Constant currency profit before tax excluding notable items ($m) 34,122 32,680 23,057
Constant currency revenue excluding notable items ($m) 67,434 64,489 53,383
Constant currency profit before tax excluding notable items and strategic transactions ($m) 34,037 32,217 N/A
Constant currency revenue excluding notable items and strategic transactions ($m) 67,256 63,043 N/A
Expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges (‘ECL’) as % of average gross loans and advances
to customers (%) 0.36 0.34 0.36
Expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges (‘ECL’) as % of average gross loans and advances
to customers, including held for sale (%) 0.36 0.32 0.36
Basic earnings per share excluding material notable items and related impacts ($) 1.31 1.22 N/A
Return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity (%) 13.6 13.6 9.0
Return on average tangible equity (%) 14.6 14.6 10.0
Return on average tangible equity excluding notable items (%) 16.0 16.2 11.8
Target basis operating expenses ($m) 32,648 31,074 N/A
At 31 Dec
Balance sheet 2024 2023 2022
Total assets ($m) 3,017,048 3,038,677 2,949,286
Net loans and advances to customers ($m) 930,658 938,535 923,561
Customer accounts ($m) 1,654,955 1,611,647 1,570,303
Average interest-earning assets ($m) 2,099,285 2,161,746 2,143,758
Loans and advances to customers as % of customer accounts (%) 56.2 58.2 58.8
Total shareholders’ equity ($m) 184,973 185,329 177,833
Tangible ordinary shareholders’ equity ($m) 154,295 155,710 146,927
Net asset value per ordinary share at period end ($) 9.26 8.82 8.01
Tangible net asset value per ordinary share at period end ($) 8.61 8.19 7.44
Capital, leverage and liquidity
Common equity tier 1 capital ratio (%)3,4 14.9 14.8 14.2
Risk-weighted assets ($m)3,4 838,254 854,114 839,720
Total capital ratio (%)3,4 20.6 20.0 19.3
Leverage ratio (%)3,4 5.6 5.6 5.8
High-quality liquid assets (liquidity value) ($m)4,5 649,210 647,505 647,046
Liquidity coverage ratio (%)4,5,6 138 136 132
Net stable funding ratio (%)4,5,6,7 143 138 141
Share count
Period end basic number of $0.50 ordinary shares outstanding, after deducting own shares held (millions) 17,918 19,006 19,739
Period end basic number of $0.50 ordinary shares outstanding and dilutive potential ordinary shares, after
deducting own shares held (millions) 18,062 19,135 19,876
Average basic number of $0.50 ordinary shares outstanding, after deducting own shares held (millions) 18,357 19,478 19,849
For reconciliation and analysis of our reported results on a constant currency basis, including lists of notable items, see page 99. Definitions and calculations of other
alternative performance measures are included in ‘Reconciliation of alternative performance measures’ on page 120.
1 In 2024, dividend per share includes the special dividend of $0.21 per ordinary share arising from the proceeds of the sale of our banking business in Canada to Royal
Bank of Canada.
2 In 2024 and 2023, our dividend payout ratio was adjusted for material notable items and related impacts, including all associated income statement impacts relating to
those items. In 2022, our dividend payout ratio was adjusted for the loss on classification to held for sale of our retail banking business in France, items relating to the
sale of our banking business in Canada, and the recognition of certain deferred tax assets.
3 Unless otherwise stated, regulatory capital ratios and requirements are based on the transitional arrangements of the Capital Requirements Regulation in force at the
time. References to EU regulations and directives (including technical standards) should, as applicable, be read as references to the UK‘s version of such regulation or
directive, as onshored into UK law under the European Union (Withdrawal) Act 2018, and as may be subsequently amended under UK law.
4 Regulatory numbers and ratios are as presented at the date of reporting. Small changes may exist between these numbers and ratios and those submitted in regulatory
filings. Where differences are significant, we may restate in subsequent periods.
5 The liquidity coverage ratio is based on the average value of the preceding 12 months. The net stable funding ratio is based on the average value of four preceding quarters.
6 We enhanced our liquidity consolidation process in 2Q24 by revising provisions that addressed historical limitations. As our Group LCR and NSFR are reported on an
average basis, the benefit of these changes incrementally increased our LCR and NSFR by circa 3% and 11% during the year, respectively. Compared to year ended 31
December 2023, the increase in LCR was mainly driven by these enhancements. The associated NSFR increase driven by these changes was partly offset by higher
required stable funding primarily due to a rise in financial investments and derivatives activities.
7 We enhanced our calculation processes during 1Q24 and our NSFR comparatives have been restated.

[PAGE 29]

Basis of presentation
Impact of strategic transactions Constant currency performance notable item is dependent on the nature of
To aid the understanding of our results, we Constant currency performance is computed each item in conjunction with the financial
separately disclose the impact of strategic by adjusting reported results of comparative impact on the Group’s income statement.
transactions classified as material notable periods for the effects of foreign currency
The tables on pages 99 to 101 and pages 113
items on the results of the Group and our translation differences, which distort period-
to 118 detail the effects of notable items on
global businesses. Material notable items are on-period comparisons.
each of our global business segments and
a subset of notable items and categorisation
We consider constant currency performance legal entities during 2024, 2023 and 2022.
is dependent on the nature of each item in
to provide useful information for investors by
conjunction with the financial impact on the
aligning internal and external reporting, and Management view of revenue on a
Group’s income statement. Strategic
reflecting how management assesses period- constant currency basis
transactions classified as material notable
Our global business segment commentary
on-period performance.
items comprise the disposal of our retail
includes tables that provide breakdowns of
banking operations in France, our banking
Notable items revenue on a constant currency basis by
business in Canada, the sale of our business
We separately disclose ‘notable items‘, which major product. These reflect the basis on
in Argentina and the acquisition of SVB UK.
are components of our income statement which revenue performance of the
that management would consider as outside businesses is assessed and managed.
The impacts quoted include the gains or
the normal course of business and generally
losses on classification to held for sale or on
non-recurring in nature. We now disclose Global Trade Solutions
acquisition and all other related notable items.
During 2024, we renamed our Global Trade
‘profit before tax excluding notable items’ and
They also include the distorting impact
and Receivables Finance business as Global
‘revenue excluding notable items’. We have
between the periods of the operating income
Trade Solutions (‘GTS’), to better reflect our
introduced these new measures due to the
statement results related to acquisitions and
broad suite of products and the focus we
significant impact of notable items on the
disposals that affect period-on-period
place on serving our clients globally.
Group’s results. We consider profit before tax
comparisons. It is computed by including the
excluding notable items and revenue
operating income statement results of each Comparative periods
excluding notable items as useful information
business in any period for which there are no Unless otherwise stated, all performance
in understanding period-on-period
results in the comparative period. We commentary that follows compares our
performance.
consider the monthly impacts of distorting results in 2024 with those in 2023.
income statement results when calculating
Certain notable items are classified as
the impact of strategic transactions. See page
‘material notable items’, which are a subset
102 for supplementary analysis of the impact
of notable items. Categorisation as a material
of strategic transactions.
Reported results (vs 2023)
Reported profit inflation, partly offset by reductions related to the effect of the disposal of our banking
Reported profit before tax of $32.3bn was our business disposals in Canada and France, business in Canada. The fall in NII also
$2.0bn or 6% higher. This included a net and from a reduction in levies in the UK and reflected an increase of $2.7bn in funding
$1.0bn favourable impact from notable items. the US. Target basis operating expenses rose costs associated with the redeployment of
by 5% compared with 2023, in line with our our commercial surplus into the trading book,
In 2024, notable items included a gain of
cost growth target. where the related revenue is recognised in
$4.8bn following the disposal of our banking
’net income on financial instruments held for
business in Canada, and losses associated Reported profit after tax of $25.0bn was
trading or managed on a fair value basis’.
with the sale of our business in Argentina, $0.4bn higher than in 2023. This included the
comprising a $1.0bn loss on disposal, as well impact of an increase in the Group’s effective These reductions were in part mitigated by
as the recycling of foreign currency reserve tax rate, notably due to the impact of our higher NII in HSBC UK, including the benefit
losses and other reserves of $5.2bn. In 2023, business disposals in Canada and Argentina. of our structural hedge. In Markets Treasury
notable items included an impairment of NII increased due to reinvestments in our
$3.0bn on our associate, Bank of Reported revenue portfolio at higher yields. Banking NII of
Reported revenue of $65.9bn was broadly
Communications Co., Limited (‘BoCom’), $43.7bn fell by $0.4bn or 1%, as increased
stable. There was growth in revenue from
which followed the reassessment of our deployment of our commercial surplus to the
higher customer activity in Wealth in WPB,
accounting value-in-use. They also included trading book partly mitigated the reductions in
and in Equities and Securities Financing in
disposal losses of $1.0bn on Treasury NII.
GBM. In addition, reported revenue in 2023
repositioning and risk management and a
included disposal losses of $1.0bn related to Revenue in 2024 was adversely affected by a
$1.6bn gain recognised on the acquisition of
Treasury repositioning and risk management. $0.8bn impact of hyperinflationary accounting
Silicon Valley Bank UK Limited (‘SVB UK’).
These items were broadly offset by the net in Argentina, including the devaluation of the
For further details on our value-in-use adverse impact of certain strategic Argentinian peso, compared with a $1.4bn
assessment for associates, see page 88. transactions described above, as well as a adverse impact in 2023.
$0.2bn loss on the early redemption of legacy
The increase in reported profit before tax also securities, and a reduction from the results of Reported ECL
included revenue growth from Wealth the businesses that have now been disposed. Reported ECL charges of $3.4bn were stable
products in WPB and in Equities and compared with 2023. This reflected
Securities Financing in GBM. NII of $32.7bn fell by $3.1bn, and included reductions in CMB and GBM, offset by an
the adverse impact of foreign currency increase in WPB.
Reported operating expenses increased by translation differences of $1.6bn and the
$1.0bn, mainly due to higher spend and impact from the early redemption of legacy
investment in technology and the impacts of securities of $0.2bn. The reduction included
Strategic
report

[PAGE 30]

Strategic Report
Reported results continued
of which strategic
2024 2023 2022 2024 vs 2023 transactions1
Reported results $m $m $m $m % $m
Net operating income before change in expected credit
losses and other credit impairment charges (‘revenue’) 65,854 66,058 50,620 (204) — (3,947)
ECL (3,414) (3,447) (3,584) 33 1 72
Net operating income 62,440 62,611 47,036 (171) — (3,875)
Total operating expenses (33,043) (32,070) (32,701) (973) (3) 1,100
Operating profit 29,397 30,541 14,335 (1,144) (4) (2,775)
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures less
impairment 2,912 (193) 2,723 3,105 >100 —
Profit before tax 32,309 30,348 17,058 1,961 6 (2,775)
Tax expense (7,310) (5,789) (809) (1,521) (26)
Profit after tax 24,999 24,559 16,249 440 2
Revenue excluding notable items 67,434 65,723 54,222 1,711 3
Profit before tax excluding notable items 34,122 33,198 23,560 924 3
1 For details, see ‘Impact of strategic transactions‘ on page 102.
2024 2023 2022
Notable items $m $m $m
Revenue
Disposals, acquisitions and related costs1 (1,343) 1,298 (2,737)
Fair value movements on financial instruments2 — 14 (618)
Restructuring and other related costs — — (247)
Disposal losses on Markets Treasury repositioning — (977) —
Early redemption of legacy securities (237) — —
Currency translation on revenue notable items — 88 (174)
Operating expenses
Disposals, acquisitions and related costs (199) (321) (18)
Impairment of non-financial items — — —
Restructuring and other related costs (34) 136 (2,882)
Currency translation on operating expenses notable items — — (62)
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures less impairment
Impairment of interest in associate — (3,000) —
1 The amount in 2024 includes a $1.0bn loss on disposal and a $5.2bn loss on the recycling in foreign currency translation reserve losses and other reserves arising
on sale of our business in Argentina. This was partly offset by a gain of $4.8bn on the sale of our banking business in Canada, inclusive of fair value gains on
related hedging and recycling of related reserves. The amount in 2023 included a gain recognised in respect of the acquisition of SVB UK of $1.6bn. The amount in
2022 included losses from classifying businesses as held for sale as part of a broader restructuring of our European business of which $2.4bn related to the sale of
our retail banking operations in France.
2 Fair value movements on non-qualifying hedges in HSBC Holdings.
ECL charges in CMB were $1.8bn in 2024, and pay remained stable. Operating expenses were of the investment. In addition, there was an
in GBM charges were $0.2bn. This included also adversely impacted by the non-recurrence increase in the share of profit from Saudi Awwal
charges of $0.4bn in respect of commercial real of a $0.2bn reversal of historical asset Bank (‘SAB’).
estate in mainland China and of $0.1bn in the impairments in 2023.
Tax expense
Hong Kong real estate sector. This compared
These increases were partly offset by a Tax in 2024 was a charge of $7.3bn,
with charges of $1.0bn and $0.1bn respectively
favourable impact from the UK bank levy of representing an effective tax rate of 22.6%,
in these sectors in 2023. In addition, ECL in
$0.1bn, as 2023 included adjustments relating to compared with 19.1% in 2023. The effective tax
2024 in CMB included a charge related to a
prior years, and from the non-recurrence of a rate for 2024 was increased by 4.8 percentage
single exposure in the UK, while charges in
$0.2bn charge incurred in the US relating to the points by the non-deductible loss on disposal of
HSBC Bank UK reduced compared with 2023. In
FDIC special assessment. our business in Argentina and by 0.7 percentage
GBM, charges in 2024 also benefited from a
points by the tax charge arising under the Global
release of stage 3 allowances in HSBC Bank plc
The number of employees expressed in full-time Minimum Tax rules, and reduced by 3.6
related to a single exposure.
equivalent staff (‘FTE’) at 31 December 2024 percentage points by the non-taxable gain on
In WPB, ECL charges were $1.3bn. These was 211,304, a decrease of 9,557 compared disposal of our banking business in Canada. The
primarily related to our legal entity in Mexico, with 31 December 2023, primarily reflecting the effective tax rate for 2023 was increased by 2.3
reflecting growth in our unsecured lending completion of the sales of our banking business percentage points by the non-deductible
portfolio and unemployment trends, and also in in Canada, our retail banking operations in impairment of investments in associates, and
Hong Kong and the UK. France and our business in Argentina. The reduced by 1.6 percentage points by the release
number of contractors at 31 December 2024 of provisions for uncertain tax positions and by
For further details of the calculation of ECL, see was 4,226, a decrease of 450. 1.5 percentage points by the non-taxable
pages 147 to 160. accounting gain arising on the acquisition of
Reported share of profit in associates
SVB UK.
Reported operating expenses and joint ventures less impairment
Reported operating expenses of $33.0bn were Reported share of profit in associates and joint
Reported profit after tax in 2024
$1.0bn or 3% higher, including favourable ventures less impairment of $2.9bn was $3.1bn
foreign currency translation differences between higher than in 2023. This primarily reflected the $25.0bn
the periods of $0.6bn. The increase reflected non-recurrence of an impairment charge in 2023
higher spend and investment in technology and of $3.0bn relating to our investment in BoCom
inflationary impacts, while performance-related due to a reduction to the accounting value-in-use (2023: $24.6bn)

[PAGE 31]

Constant currency results
of which strategic
2024 2023 2022 2024 vs 2023 transactions1
Results – on a constant currency basis $m $m $m $m % $m
Revenue 65,854 64,912 49,587 942 1 (3,890)
ECL (3,414) (3,259) (3,615) (155) (5) 36
Total operating expenses (33,043) (31,494) (32,229) (1,549) (5) 992
Operating profit 29,397 30,159 13,743 (762) (3)
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures less impairment 2,912 (256) 2,559 3,168 >100 —
Profit before tax 32,309 29,903 16,302 2,406 8 (2,862)
Revenue excluding notable items 67,434 64,489 53,383 2,945 5
Profit before tax excluding notable items 34,122 32,680 23,057 1,442 4
1 For details, see ‘Impact of strategic transactions‘ on page 102.
Profit before tax of $32.3bn was $2.4bn trading or managed on a fair value basis’, Operating expenses were $1.5bn or 5%
higher than in 2023 on a constant currency partly offset by higher NII in HSBC UK, higher on a constant currency basis, primarily
basis. Constant currency profit before tax including the benefit of our structural hedge. reflecting higher spend and investment in
excluding notable items of $34.1bn was On a constant currency basis, banking NII of technology and inflationary impacts, partly
$1.4bn or 4% higher. $43.7bn increased by $1.5bn or 4%. offset by continued cost discipline. The
favourable impacts from the completion of
Revenue increased by $0.9bn or 1% on a ECL were $0.2bn or 5% higher on a constant
disposals in Canada and France were largely
constant currency basis, and included a currency basis. This included an increase in
offset by the adverse impact of re-translating
$3.9bn net adverse impact from strategic WPB, mainly in our legal entity in Mexico,
the results of hyperinflationary economies at
transactions. The growth in revenue reflected from higher unsecured lending and
constant currency. Target basis operating
the impact of higher customer activity in our unemployment trends, and from higher
expenses rose by $1.6bn or 5% compared
Wealth products in WPB, and in Equities and charges in our main legal entities in Hong
with 2023.
Securities Financing in GBM. NII fell due to Kong and the UK. This was partly offset by
business disposals and a loss on the early reductions in CMB and GBM including lower Share of profit in associates and joint
redemption of legacy securities in 2024. stage 3 charges, including charges relating to ventures less impairment of $2.9bn was
the commercial real estate sector in mainland $3.2bn higher on a constant currency basis,
The reduction also included higher funding
China, and in CMB, lower charges in HSBC and included the non-recurrence of a $3.0bn
costs associated with the redeployment of
UK. The reduction in CMB was partly offset impairment of our investment in BoCom due
our commercial surplus into the trading book,
by a charge in 2024 related to a specific to a revision to the accounting value-in-use of
where the related revenue is recognised in
exposure in the UK. the investment. The increase also included a
’net income on financial instruments held for
higher share of profit from SAB.
Balance sheet and capital
Balance sheet strength Distributable reserves in RWAs through strategic transactions were
Total assets of $3.0tn were $22bn lower than The distributable reserves of HSBC Holdings at offset by dividends, share buy-backs and
at 31 December 2023 on a reported basis, 31 December 2024 were $28.3bn, a $2.6bn organic balance sheet growth. In January 2025,
and included adverse effects of foreign decrease since 31 December 2023, primarily the PRA announced the delay of Basel 3.1
currency translation differences of $66bn. driven by $27.4bn of dividends on ordinary implementation to 1 January 2027 pending US
shares, additional tier 1 coupon and share buy- developments. We expect that the impact on
On a constant currency basis, total assets
back payments, offset by $24.8bn in profits our CET1 ratio will be a modest benefit.
rose by $45bn, mainly from an increase in
and other reserves movements generated in
financial investments, and higher derivative 2024. Distributable reserves are sensitive to Liquidity position
and trading asset balances. This was partly We actively manage the Group’s liquidity and
impairments of investments in subsidiaries to
offset by a reduction in assets held for sale, funding to support the business strategy and
the extent they are not offset by the realisation
notably following the completion of our meet regulatory requirements at all times,
of related reserves. Further details on HSBC
disposals in France, Canada and Argentina. including under stress. To do this, we monitor
Holdings’ intentions to increase distributable
our position using a number of risk appetite
reserves in 2025 are provided in the Corporate
Reported loans and advances to customers
measures, including the liquidity coverage
Governance report on page 318.
fell by $8bn. On a constant currency basis,
ratio and the net stable funding ratio. During
loans and advances increased by $14bn. The
Capital position 2024, the average high-quality liquid assets we
increase included lending balance growth in
We actively manage the Group’s capital held was $649.2bn. This excludes high-quality
CMB, together with mortgage lending
position to support our business strategy and liquid assets in legal entities which are not
growth in WPB.
meet our regulatory requirements at all transferable due to local restrictions.
times, including under stress, while
Reported customer accounts of $1.7tn
optimising our capital efficiency. To do this, For further details, see page 204.
increased by $43bn. On a constant currency
we monitor our capital position using a
basis, they grew by $75bn, with growth
number of measures. These include our Common equity tier 1 ratio (%)
across all of our global businesses, mainly in
capital ratios and the impact on our capital 14.9%
Asia.
ratios as a result of stress.
Loans and advances to customers as a
percentage of customer accounts was 56.2%, Our CET1 capital ratio at 31 December 2024 (2023: 14.8%)
was 14.9%, up marginally compared with the
compared with 58.2% at 31 December 2023.
prior year as capital generation and a reduction
Strategic
report

[PAGE 32]

Strategic Report
Global businesses
During the year we served our customers through three global businesses.
The following pages set out how each global business has performed.
From 1 January 2025, we have simplified our structure as explained on page 5.
Wealth and Personal Banking
Our WPB business served 40 million customers globally, including 7.7 million who are international, from retail
customers to ultra high net worth individuals and their families.
Contribution to Group profit before tax To meet our customers’ needs, WPB Performance in 2024 reflected strong growth
offered a full suite of products and in Wealth, with double digit growth across
services across transactional banking, Retail investment distribution, Private
lending and wealth. Banking and life insurance as well as growth
in asset management. We also saw
WPB continued to invest in our key strategic moderate balance sheet growth, and
priorities of expanding our Wealth franchise in increases in our invested assets and wealth
$12.2bn Asia, developing our transactional banking deposits. The results included growth in
and lending capabilities, and addressing our operating expenses, reflecting investment
39% customers’ international needs. and inflationary impacts.
Divisional highlights
21% 12%
Calculation is based on profit before tax of our global
businesses excluding Corporate Centre.
Growth in wealth non-interest income Growth in contractual service margin in
compared with 2023. insurance since 2023, up to $12.1bn.
of which strategic
2024 2023 2022 2024 vs 2023 transactions2
Results – on a constant currency basis $m $m $m $m % $m
Net operating income 28,674 26,848 20,772 1,826 7 (636)
ECL (1,335) (935) (1,160) (400) (43) (22)
Operating expenses (15,204) (14,352) (14,141) (852) (6) 651
Share of profit in associates and JVs 47 64 29 (17) (27) —
Profit before tax 12,182 11,625 5,500 557 5 (7)
RoTE1 (%) 29.0 28.5 13.8
1 RoTE (annualised) in 2023 and 2022 included a 0.3 and 4.7 percentage point adverse impact from the impairment losses relating to the sale of our retail banking
operations in France respectively.
2 Impact of strategic transactions classified as material notable items. For details, see ‘Impact of strategic transactions‘ on page 102.
International customers are those who bank in more than one market, those whose address is different from the market we bank them in and customers whose
nationality, or country of birth for non-resident Indians and overseas Chinese, is different to the market we bank them in. Customers may be counted more than
once when banked in multiple countries.
Our new Premier proposition
Kicking off in three markets – Hong Kong, Singapore and the UK – the new HSBC Premier
proposition focuses on our strengths in wealth, health, travel and international services,
combining the expertise of our Premier Relationship Managers with digital financial planning
solutions to help affluent customers navigate important investment decisions. We partnered
with top brands to provide an exclusive set of travel, dining, international property and health
and well-being services via the HSBC Premier Mastercard credit card. Building on our core
international capabilities, such as international credit history transfer and round the clock 24/7
account servicing, the updated HSBC Premier enables us to support a new generation of
customers, while also deepening relationships with millions of our existing clients.

[PAGE 33]

of which strategic
2024 2023 2022 2024 vs 2023 transactions4
Management view of revenue $m $m $m $m % $m
Wealth 8,758 7,446 6,973 1,312 18 (235)
– investment distribution 2,925 2,517 2,469 408 16 (167)
– Global Private Banking 2,612 2,268 2,039 344 15 —
net interest income 1,193 1,167 975 26 2 —
non-interest income 1,419 1,101 1,064 318 29 —
– life insurance 1,840 1,396 1,337 444 32 (10)
– asset management 1,381 1,265 1,128 116 9 (58)
Personal Banking 19,352 20,240 15,884 (888) (4) (669)
– net interest income 17,980 18,940 14,597 (960) (5) (578)
– non-interest income 1,372 1,300 1,287 72 6 (91)
Other1 564 (838) (2,085) 1,402 >100 268
– of which: impairment (loss)/reversal relating to the sale of
our retail banking operations in France2 28 4 (2,374) 24 >100 24
Net operating income3 28,674 26,848 20,772 1,826 7 (636)
1 ‘Other’ includes Markets Treasury, HSBC Holdings interest expense and hyperinflation. It also includes the distribution and manufacturing (where applicable) of
retail and credit protection insurance, disposal gains and other non-product-specific income.
2 The amounts associated with the sale of our retail banking operations in France include all related impacts disclosed in notable items, which are presented across
various lines in our consolidated income statement.
3 ’Net operating income’ means net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges (also referred to as ‘revenue’).
4 Impact of strategic transactions classified as material notable items. For details, see ‘Impact of strategic transactions’ on page 102.
2024 2023 2022
Notable items – on a reported basis $m $m $m
Revenue
Disposals, acquisitions and related costs 28 4 (2,212)
Restructuring and other related costs — — 98
Disposal losses on Markets Treasury repositioning — (391) —
Currency translation on revenue notable items — 34 (158)
Operating expenses
Disposals, acquisitions and related costs (3) (53) (7)
Restructuring and other related costs (10) 20 (357)
Currency translation on operating expenses notable items — — (3)
Financial performance – Global Private Banking revenue was $0.3bn loans to Corporate Centre. Unsecured lending
Profit before tax of $12.2bn was $0.6bn higher or 15% higher, primarily driven by a strong balances increased, including in HSBC UK and
than in 2023 on a constant currency basis. The performance in brokerage and trading in our our legal entities in Asia and Mexico. Deposit
growth reflected higher Wealth revenue, as entities in Asia. balances grew by $24bn, including in our legal
we continued to execute on our strategy. This entities in Asia and the UK.
– Life insurance revenue was $0.4bn or 32%
was partly offset by a $0.2bn reduction from
higher. The growth included an increase in Other revenue increased by $1.4bn, mainly
the sale of our banking business in Canada,
earnings from contractual service margin due to a $1.1bn increase in revenue allocated
which completed in 1Q24. Net interest income
(‘CSM’) release, largely due to continued from Markets Treasury, including from the
(‘NII’) grew by 2% compared with 2023, while
growth in the CSM balance. The year-on- non-recurrence of 2023 disposal losses on
fee income increased by 12%. Operating
year increase in revenue also included the repositioning and risk management, the non-
expenses grew by $0.9bn and there was an
impact of corrections to historical valuation recurrence of a loss on sale of our business in
increase in ECL of $0.4bn, both on a constant
estimates recognised in 2023. Insurance New Zealand in 2023 of $0.1bn and higher
currency basis.
manufacturing new business CSM of $2.5bn interest income earned on own capital.
Revenue of $28.7bn was $1.8bn or 7% higher was 49% higher than in 2023, mainly in our
ECL were $1.3bn, an increase of $0.4bn
on a constant currency basis. Wealth legal entities in Hong Kong.
compared with 2023 on a constant currency
performed strongly, up $1.3bn. This included
– Asset management revenue was $0.1bn or basis, reflecting higher charges in our legal
double-digit percentage growth in life
9% higher, driven by a 7% increase in entity in Mexico, mainly in our unsecured
insurance, Global Private Banking and
assets under management due to inflows portfolio, due to portfolio growth and
investment distribution, as well as growth in
and positive market movements. This was unemployment trends. In addition, we had
asset management. This was partly offset by a
partly offset by a reduction in revenue due to higher charges in our legal entities in Hong
reduction in Personal Banking NII of $1.0bn,
the sale of our banking business in Canada. Kong and the UK as a result of portfolio
due to the impact of the disposals in France
growth.
and Canada and margin compression, partly In Personal Banking, revenue of $19.4bn was
offset by balance sheet and non-NII growth. down $0.9bn or 4%. Operating expenses of $15.2bn were 6%
higher on a constant currency basis, reflecting
In Wealth, revenue of $8.8bn was up $1.3bn – Net interest income was $1.0bn or 5%
continued investments in Wealth in Asia,
or 18%. lower due to the impact of the sales of our
higher spend and investment in technology,
banking businesses in France and Canada
– Investment distribution revenue grew by and narrower margins. Compared with 2023, higher performance-related pay and from the
$0.4bn, or 16%, driven by higher sales of lending balances were broadly stable with impact of higher inflation. These were partly
mutual funds, structured products and growth mainly in mortgages in HSBC UK and offset by continued cost discipline and the
bonds due to our continued investment in our legal entity in the US. This was offset by impact of the disposals in France and Canada.
Wealth and improved market sentiment, the reclassification of the France retained
including in our entities in Asia.
Strategic
report

[PAGE 34]

Strategic Report
Commercial Banking
Our CMB business served around 1.21 million customers across 48 countries and territories, ranging from small
enterprises to large companies operating globally.
Contribution to Group profit before tax CMB partnered with businesses around CMB profit before tax compared with 2023
the world, supporting every stage of was impacted by the non-recurrence of the
their growth, international ambitions gain on acquisition of SVB UK recognised in
and sustainability transitions. CMB 2023. Excluding this, there was a good 2024
delivered value to clients through our performance, with growth in revenue due to
international network, financing balance sheet growth, continued momentum
strength, digital capabilities and our in growing our multi-jurisdictional client base,
$11.9bn universal banking offering, including our and investment in our core transaction
global trade and payments solutions. banking capabilities leading to higher fee
38% income. Revenue also benefited from the
HSBC has been recognised as the World’s best growth in GBM collaboration income. The
Trade Finance Bank and the World’s best increase in operating expenses reflected the
Payments and Treasury Bank (Euromoney impact of hyperinflation in Argentina,
Awards) and we continue to invest in increased technology spend and investment,
capabilities to assist clients in fulfilling their incremental costs associated with HSBC
business needs more efficiently. Innovation Banking and inflationary pressures.
Calculation is based on profit before tax of our global
businesses excluding Corporate Centre. We have completed our first full year of 1 The number of customers reduced due to the
HSBC Innovation Banking with global revenue sale of our banking business in Canada.
now standing at $0.7bn, and over 1,200 new
customers onboarded in 2024.
Divisional highlights
10%
$25bn
Increase in loans and advances to customers
in Global Trade Solutions, compared with CMB grew deposits by $25bn or 5%
2023, on a constant currency basis. compared with 2023.
of which strategic
2024 2023 2022 2024 vs 2023 transactions2
Results – on a constant currency basis $m $m $m $m % $m
Net operating income 21,580 22,396 16,207 (816) (4) (2,228)
ECL (1,815) (2,006) (1,868) 191 10 69
Operating expenses (7,906) (7,234) (6,810) (672) (9) 255
Share of profit/(loss) in associates and JVs 1 (1) 1 2 >100 —
Profit before tax 11,860 13,155 7,530 (1,295) (10) (1,904)
RoTE1 (%) 20.0 23.4 13.7
1 RoTE in 2023 included a 3.1 percentage point favourable impact from the gain recognised on the acquisition of SVB UK.
2 Impact of strategic transactions classified as material notable items. For details, see ‘Impact of strategic transactions‘ on page 102.
An international partner for a global travel retailer
Our 15-year partnership with Swiss-based Avolta reflects a deep collaboration that has
supported Avolta’s international expansion. During the pandemic, we worked closely with
Avolta to help them navigate the travel retail sector's challenges. This year, beyond
transaction banking and credit solutions, we served as lead global coordinator and physical
bookrunner on a €500m bond, reaffirming our commitment to Avolta’s strategic goals. As an
innovative and rapidly-evolving company, Avolta needs a banking partner that matches their
pace. Utilising our international network and expertise in key markets across the US, Europe
and Asia, we have helped unlock global opportunities for Avolta and their customers, fostering
a robust partnership centred on growth and innovation.

[PAGE 35]

of which strategic
2024 2023 2022 2024 vs 2023 transactions4
Management view of revenue $m $m $m $m % $m
Global Trade Solutions 1,992 1,969 2,045 23 1 (39)
Credit and Lending 5,183 5,239 5,728 (56) (1) (281)
Global Payments Solutions 11,880 12,125 6,911 (245) (2) (225)
Markets products, Insurance and Investments and Other1 2,525 3,063 1,523 (538) (18) (1,683)
– of which: share of revenue for Markets and Securities Services
and Banking products 1,382 1,295 1,181 87 7
– of which: gain on the acquisition of Silicon Valley Bank UK Limited — 1,659 — (1,659) (100) (1,659)
Net operating income2 21,580 22,396 16,207 (816) (4) (2,228)
– of which: transaction banking3 14,867 15,077 9,853
1 Includes a gain on the acquisition of SVB UK and CMB‘s share of revenue from the sale of Markets and Securities Services and Banking products to CMB
customers. GBM‘s share of revenue from the sale of these products to CMB customers is included within the corresponding lines of the GBM management view
of revenue. Also includes allocated revenue from Markets Treasury, HSBC Holdings interest expense and hyperinflation.
2 ’Net operating income’ means net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges (also referred to as ‘revenue’).
3 Transaction banking comprises Global Trade Solutions, Global Payments Solutions and CMB’s share of Global Foreign Exchange (shown within ‘share of revenue
for Markets and Securities Services and Banking products’).
4 Impact of strategic transactions classified as material notable items. For details, see ‘Impact of strategic transactions‘ on page 102.
2024 2023 2022
Notable items – on a reported basis $m $m $m
Revenue
Disposals, acquisitions and related costs — 1,591 —
Restructuring and other related costs — — (16)
Disposal losses on Markets Treasury repositioning — (316) —
Currency translation on revenue notable items — 65 6
Operating expenses
Disposals, acquisitions and related costs (2) (55) —
Restructuring and other related costs 2 32 (266)
Currency translation on operating expenses notable items — — (7)
Financial performance – In Credit and Lending, revenue decreased ECL charges of $1.8bn were $0.2bn lower on
Profit before tax of $11.9bn was $1.3bn by $0.1bn or 1% due to the impact of the a constant currency basis. ECLs in 2024
lower than in 2023 on a constant currency disposal of our banking business in Canada, reflected lower charges in our main legal
basis. This was mainly due to a reduction in partly offset by higher income in IVB. entity in Asia, reflecting a reduction in ECL in
revenue following the non-recurrence of a the commercial real estate sector in mainland
– In GPS, revenue was down $0.2bn or 2%,
$1.7bn gain recognised in 2023 on the China, and in HSBC UK. These reductions
reflecting the impact of the disposal of our
acquisition of SVB UK, the impact of the were partly offset by new stage 3 charges
banking business in Canada, and a
disposal of our banking business in Canada in related to a single customer in the UK, and in
decrease in our main legal entities in Asia
2024, as well as higher operating expenses. our main legal entity in the Middle East.
and Europe from lower margins, reflecting
The reduction in profit before tax was partly
a change in the product mix. This was Operating expenses of $7.9bn were $0.7bn
offset by balance-sheet-driven revenue
partly offset by growth in fee income or 9% higher on a constant currency basis.
growth, excluding the disposal of our banking
reflecting business initiatives and The increase reflected hyperinflationary
business in Canada, higher revenue allocated
transaction volumes. There was also higher impacts in Argentina, incremental costs in
from Markets Treasury, transaction banking
revenue in HSBC UK due to higher margins IVB following the acquisition of SVB UK,
fee growth and lower ECLs.
and in our legal entity in Argentina due to higher spend and investment in technology,
Revenue of $21.6bn was $0.8bn or 4% lower hyperinflationary impacts. and inflationary impacts. These increases
on a constant currency basis. This was – In GBM products, Insurance and were in part mitigated by continued cost
primarily due to the non-recurrence of the Investments, and Other, revenue discipline and lower costs following the
gain on the acquisition of SVB UK in 2023, as decreased by $0.5bn, largely due to the disposal of our banking business in Canada.
mentioned above. It also included an adverse non-recurrence of the $1.7bn gain
impact of $0.6bn from strategic transactions, recognised in 2023 on the acquisition of
notably in relation to the disposal of our SVB UK. This adverse impact was partly
banking business in Canada. These were offset by higher allocated revenue from
partly offset by an increase in NII due to the Markets Treasury, including from the non-
hyperinflationary impacts in Argentina and recurrence of 2023 disposal losses on
higher allocated revenue from Markets repositioning and risk management and
Treasury. interest income on own capital. There was
also higher GBM collaboration revenue,
– In GTS, revenue was up $23m or 1%,
reflecting growth in Global Markets and
mainly due to growth in fee income from
Capital Financing products, notably in our
guarantees, higher balances and improved
key entities in Hong Kong, the UK and in
margins. This was partly offset by the
Europe.
impact of the disposal of our banking
business in Canada.
Strategic
report

[PAGE 36]

Strategic Report
Global Banking and Markets
Our GBM business supported multinational corporates, financial institutions and institutional clients, as well as
public sector and government bodies.
Contribution to Group profit before tax GBM is a leading provider of transaction GBM delivered a strong performance in 2024,
banking, financing and risk achieving a RoTE of 13.0%. On a constant
management solutions to our clients. currency basis, we grew revenue by 11%,
Our global network with expertise, while costs grew by 4% as we continued to
particularly in Asia and the Middle East, invest in technology to support future
provides a differentiated service to our revenue growth, and from the impact of
clients’ international financial inflation. We also had a reduction in ECL
$7.1bn
requirements. compared with 2023.
23%
Divisional highlights
13.0% 36%
Calculation is based on profit before tax of our global Return on average tangible equity, up 1.6 Increase in Securities Financing revenue
businesses excluding Corporate Centre. percentage points compared with 2023. compared with 2023, primarily from new
client onboarding in prime finance.
of which strategic
2024 2023 2022 2024 vs 2023 transactions1
Results – on a constant currency basis $m $m $m $m % $m
Net operating income 17,529 15,771 14,542 1,758 11 (49)
ECL (235) (317) (578) 82 26 (11)
Operating expenses (10,231) (9,872) (9,403) (359) (4) 59
Share of profit/(loss) in associates and JVs — — (2) — — —
Profit before tax 7,063 5,582 4,559 1,481 27 (1)
RoTE (%) 13.0 11.4 9.8
1 Impact of strategic transactions classified as material notable items. For details, see ‘Impact of strategic transactions‘ on page 102.
India‘s biggest-ever IPO listing
In October 2024, we led the $3.3bn initial public offering (‘IPO’) of Hyundai Motor India
Limited, India’s largest ever IPO and the second largest globally in 2024 at the time of the
transaction.
Acting as joint book-running lead manager, we supported the company throughout the
transaction. The strength of our international network in connecting clients to investors across
markets, helped the company to attract significant demand from both domestic and global
investors. The transaction, also the largest auto IPO since 2022, represented Hyundai’s largest
stock market listing outside of South Korea, demonstrating the depth and evolution of India’s
capital markets-raising potential from the perspective of global corporates and investors.

[PAGE 37]

of which strategic
2024 2023 2022 2024 vs 2023 transactions6
Management view of revenue $m $m $m $m % $m
Markets and Securities Services 9,652 8,806 8,815 846 10 (63)
– Securities Services 2,280 2,305 1,994 (25) (1) (3)
– Global Debt Markets 968 827 698 141 17 (8)
– Global Foreign Exchange 3,972 4,030 4,088 (58) (1) (49)
– Equities 891 552 1,015 339 61 (1)
– Securities Financing 1,523 1,120 924 403 36 (5)
– Credit and funding valuation adjustments 18 (28) 96 46 >100 3
Banking 8,656 8,460 6,690 196 2 (125)
– Global Trade Solutions 690 658 670 32 5 (13)
– Global Payments Solutions 4,497 4,427 2,861 70 2 (72)
– Credit and Lending 1,820 1,967 2,229 (147) (7) (15)
– Investment Banking1 1,084 1,040 737 44 4 (9)
– Other2 565 368 193 197 54 (16)
GBM Other (779) (1,495) (963) 716 48 139
– Principal Investments 24 (5) 57 29 >100 —
– Other3 (803) (1,490) (1,020) 687 46 139
Net operating income4 17,529 15,771 14,542 1,758 11 (49)
– of which: transaction banking5 11,439 11,420 9,613 19 —
1 From 1 January 2024, we renamed ‘Capital Markets and Advisory‘ as ‘Investment Banking‘ to better reflect our purpose and offering.
2 Includes portfolio management, earnings on capital and other capital allocations on all Banking products.
3 Includes notional tax credits and Markets Treasury, HSBC Holdings interest expense and hyperinflation.
4 ‘Net operating income’ means net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges (also referred to as ‘revenue’).
5 Transaction banking comprises Securities Services, Global Foreign Exchange (net of revenue shared with CMB), GTS and GPS.
6 Impact of strategic transactions classified as material notable items. For details, see ‘Impact of strategic transactions‘ on page 102.
2024 2023 2022
Notable items – on a reported basis $m $m $m
Revenue
Disposals, acquisitions and related costs (14) — —
Restructuring and other related costs — — (184)
Disposal losses on Markets Treasury repositioning — (270) —
Currency translation on revenue notable items — (2) 4
Operating expenses
Disposals, acquisitions and related costs (2) 3 —
Restructuring and other related costs (1) 21 (252)
Currency translation on operating expenses notable items — — (8)
Financial performance
Profit before tax of $7.1bn was $1.5bn or – In Global Foreign Exchange, revenue fell by – In Credit and Lending, revenue decreased
27% higher than in 2023 on a constant $0.1bn or 1%, as client activity remained by $0.1bn or 7% reflecting ongoing muted
currency basis. This was driven by an resilient given the market environment. client demand.
increase in revenue of $1.8bn or 11%on a
– In Equities, revenue increased by $0.3bn or – In Banking Other, revenue increased by
constant currency basis, including from strong
61% amid improved market sentiment, $0.2bn or 54% due to hedging activities
performances in Securities Financing,
which drove strong client demand for and higher allocated earnings on capital
Equities and Global Debt Markets. In addition,
wealth products, as well as higher levels of held in the business.
ECL charges decreased compared with 2023,
volatility in 2H24.
while operating expenses increased by In GBM Other, revenue increased by $0.7bn
$0.4bn on a constant currency basis. – In Securities Financing, revenue rose by or 48%, driven by higher allocated revenue
$0.4bn or 36%, primarily driven by new from Markets Treasury, including from the non-
Revenue of $17.5bn was $1.8bn or 11% client onboarding in prime finance and recurrence of 2023 disposal losses on
higher on a constant currency basis. robust institutional financing demand. repositioning and risk management, and lower
In Markets and Securities Services (‘MSS‘), In Banking, revenue increased by $0.2bn or HSBC Holdings interest expense.
revenue increased by $0.8bn or 10% driven 2%.
ECL of $0.2bn decreased by $0.1bn on a
by prime finance, fixed income and equity
– In GPS, revenue increased by $0.1bn or constant currency basis, mainly as the 2024
derivatives.
2%, driven by higher average balances and period included a release related to a single
– In Securities Services, revenue decreased fee performance resulting from business exposure.
by $25m or 1% from divestments within initiatives, repricing and transaction growth.
Operating expenses of $10.2bn increased by
our fund administration business and from – In Investment Banking, which includes $0.4bn or 4% on a constant currency basis,
lower NII due to reduced rates impacting Issuer Services, revenue increased by due to the impact of inflation and higher
margins. $44m or 4%, due to higher advisory and spend and investment in technology, partly
– In Global Debt Markets, revenue rose by financing activity, supported by the mitigated by continued cost discipline.
$0.1bn or 17%, from higher client demand recovery in global capital markets.
for financing products and increased volumes
primarily from emerging markets credit.
Strategic
report

[PAGE 38]

Strategic Report
Corporate Centre
The results of Corporate Centre primarily comprise the financial impact of certain acquisitions and disposals and
the share of profit from our interests in our associates and joint ventures and related impairments. It also includes
Central Treasury, stewardship costs and consolidation adjustments.
Corporate Centre performance in 2024 primarily In 2024, these included a loss on disposal of in Central Treasury and structural hedges, a
reflected the financial impact of certain $1.0bn, as well as foreign currency and other reduction following the transfer of the retained
acquisitions and disposals, including the gain on reserve losses of $5.2bn, following the French retail lending portfolio from WPB, and
the sale of our banking business in Canada and disposal of our business in Argentina. They also fair valuation losses on legacy portfolios. This
losses on the disposal of our business in included a loss of $0.1bn related to the was partly offset by fair value gains on hedging
Argentina, including foreign currency and other recycling of reserves following the completion related to our retained French retail lending
reserve losses. In 2023, performance included of the sale of our business in Russia, and a portfolio.
the recognition of an impairment in our $0.2bn loss on the early redemption of legacy
Operating expenses decreased by $0.3bn on a
investment in our associate BoCom. securities. These were partly offset by a
constant currency basis. This included a lower
$4.8bn gain on the sale of our banking
Financial performance impact from levies, including in relation to the
business in Canada, inclusive of fair value gains
Profit before tax of $1.2bn was $1.7bn higher FDIC special assessment and the UK bank levy.
on related hedging and recycling of related
than in 2023 on a constant currency basis. The
increase included the impact of the non- reserves. Share of profit from associates and joint
recurrence of an impairment charge of $3.0bn In 2023, notable items included fair value losses ventures of $2.9bn increased by $3.2bn on a
in 2023 relating to our investment in BoCom. of $0.3bn relating to the hedging of the constant currency basis, primarily reflecting the
non-recurrence of an impairment charge of
proceeds of the sale of our business in Canada.
Revenue of $1.9bn was $1.8bn lower on a $3.0bn in 2023 relating to our investment in
constant currency basis, primarily due to the The reduction in revenue also included adverse BoCom and an increase in share of profit from
impact of notable items. fair value movements on financial instruments SAB.
of which strategic
2024 2023 2022 2024 vs 2023 transactions1
Results – on a constant currency basis $m $m $m $m % $m
Net operating income (1,929) (103) (1,934) (1,826) >(100) (977)
ECL (29) (1) (9) (28) >(100) —
Operating expenses 298 (36) (1,875) 334 >100 27
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures less impairment 2,864 (319) 2,531 3,183 >100 —
– of which: impairment loss relating to our investment in BoCom — (3,017) — 3,017 >100 —
Profit/(loss) before tax 1,204 (459) (1,287) 1,663 >100 (950)
RoTE (annualised) (%) 0.7 (1.0) 2.8
1 Impact of strategic transactions classified as material notable items. For details, see ‘Impact of strategic transactions‘ on page 102.
of which strategic
2024 2023 2022 2024 vs 2023 transactions6
Management view of revenue $m $m $m $m % $m
Central Treasury1 (49) 99 (743) (148) >(100) —
Legacy portfolios (50) 3 (181) (53) >(100) —
Other2,3 (1,830) (205) (1,010) (1,625) >(100) (977)
– of which: gain on the sale of banking business in Canada
and associated hedges4 4,795 (275) — 5,070 >100 5,070
– of which: loss on the sale of business in Argentina (1,011) — — (1,011) >(100) (1,011)
– of which: recycling of foreign currency translation reserve
losses and other reserves on sale of business in Argentina (5,166) — — (5,166) >(100) (5,166)
Net operating income5 (1,929) (103) (1,934) (1,826) >(100) (977)
1 Central Treasury comprises valuation differences on issued long-term debt and associated swaps and fair value movements on financial instruments.
2 Other comprises gains and losses on certain transactions, funding charges on property and technology assets, the results of the retained France retail loan portfolio,
revaluation gains and losses on investment properties and property disposals, consolidation adjustments and other revenue items not allocated to global businesses.
3 Revenue from Markets Treasury, HSBC Holdings net interest expense and hyperinflation are allocated out to the global businesses, to align them better with their
revenue and expense. The total Markets Treasury revenue component of this allocation for 2024 was $1,569m (2023: $(339)m; 2022: $1,377m).
4 Includes fair value gains/(losses) on the foreign exchange hedging of the proceeds of the sale and the recycling of related reserves.
5 ’Net operating income’ means net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges (also referred to as ‘revenue’).
6 Impact of strategic transactions classified as material notable items. For details, see ‘Impact of strategic transactions‘ on page 102.
2024 2023 2022
Notable items – on a reported basis $m $m $m
Revenue
Disposals, acquisitions and related costs (1,357) (297) (525)
Fair value movements on financial instruments — 14 (618)
Restructuring and other related costs — — (145)
Early redemption of legacy securities (237) — —
Currency translation on revenue notable items — (9) (26)
Operating expenses
Disposals, acquisitions and related costs (192) (216) (11)
Restructuring and other related costs (25) 63 (2,007)
Currency translation on operating expenses notable items — — (46)
Impairment of interest in associate — (3,000) —
Currency translation on associate notable items (17)

[PAGE 39]

Risk overview
Active risk management helps us to achieve our strategy,
serve our customers and communities and grow our
business safely.
Managing risk
HSBC’s operations are subject to changes in Key risk appetite metrics
the economy, financial conditions and
Risk
geopolitical developments that could have a Component Measure appetite 2024
material impact on the Group’s operations and
Capital CET1 ratio – end point basis ≥13.5% 14.9%
financial risks. These factors are a significant
source of uncertainty that we monitor and Change in expected credit losses and other credit
Change in expected impairment charges as a % of advances: Retail (WPB) ≤0.50% 0.27%
review continuously. credit losses and
Change in expected credit losses and other credit
other credit
Despite political and economic uncertainties, impairment charges as a % of advances: Wholesale
impairment charges
global economic growth was resilient in 2024. (GBM, CMB) ≤0.45% 0.37%
This was led by strong growth in the US and a
mild recovery in the EU, while key emerging consumption and offset some of the impact Further sanctions or counter-sanctions may
markets were supported by monetary policy of US tariffs. adversely affect the Group, its customers and
easing. In the US, performance was supported various markets.
by household consumption and government Fiscal policy, public deficits and indebtedness
spending. In mainland China activity by sector influence our risk profile. Public spending as a Political changes may also have implications
has been uneven, but fiscal and monetary proportion of GDP is likely to remain high for for policy and regulations. Newly elected
support ensured that the official economic most key economies. Against the backdrop of governments in several key markets have
growth target was still met. UK growth higher global interest rates, a high level of committed to a shift in domestic and foreign
remained low despite a fall in inflation and public debt issuance, and a strong US dollar, policy priorities. The US administration
lower interest rates, as consumers continued to borrowing costs for certain countries could supports sweeping economic, foreign and
prioritise saving. increase further. This could adversely impact trade policy changes that, if enacted, are
the fiscal capacity and debt sustainability of expected to have geopolitical and
Continued moderate growth is expected in highly-indebted sovereign issuers. macroeconomic implications, including an
2025, but the trajectory of US economic and uncertain impact on growth and inflation.
trade policies in the aftermath of the US Additional sanctions on Iran were imposed in HSBC continues to monitor these policy
election, and geopolitical risks such as the 2024 in response to Iran’s activities and the changes and assess their implications for
ongoing Russia-Ukraine war and conflict in increase in tensions between Israel and Iran. economic conditions in our key markets.
the Middle East, remain key sources of The sanctions and trade restrictions imposed
forecast uncertainty. by the US, the UK, and the EU, as well as Challenging conditions persist in the real
other countries, as a result of the Russia- estate sector in several of our major markets.
Inflation and high interest rates remain key Ukraine war, remain complex, far-reaching The Hong Kong commercial real estate
considerations for policymakers. In the US and and evolving. The US has expanded the reach market has seen prices fall amid low
Europe, headline inflation rates trended of its secondary sanctions regime, which transaction volumes and a high interest rate
downwards towards central bank target ranges, includes broad discretion to impose severe environment. Despite an improvement in
despite high and persistent services price sanctions on non-US banks. The imposition of sentiment associated with supportive policy
increases. Disinflation enabled the US Federal such sanctions against any non-US HSBC measures and recent US interest rate cuts,
Reserve and the ECB to cut their policy rates by entity could result in significant adverse commercial real estate market demand has
100bps and 75bps respectively, and the Bank of commercial, operational and reputational remained weak. Prices also fell in the Hong
England by 50bps in 2024. consequences for HSBC. In response to such Kong residential market during 2024 but
sanctions and trade restrictions, as well as sentiment and transaction volumes started to
Further cuts in interest rates are expected in
asset flight, Russia has implemented certain improve in the fourth quarter, supported by
the US, although the resilience of the
countermeasures, including the expropriation more favourable government measures and
economy and the perceived supply chain and
of certain foreign assets. improved affordability as prices and interest
inflation risks attached to new and
rates fell. Stabilisation of the real estate market
prospective US tariff policies, have led Strategic competition with China has the
could be dependent on a further lowering of
markets to pare back their expectations for potential to impact global supply chains which
interest rates to revive demand for property
rate cuts in 2025. In the Eurozone, interest may in turn impact the Group’s operations.
both in the domestic market and from
rates are expected to be cut in order to The US, the UK, the EU and other countries
mainland China. Higher interest rates, a
support growth. Markets also expect the have imposed various sanctions and trade
stronger US dollar and weak sentiment in
Bank of England to continue to reduce the restrictions on Chinese individuals and
bank rate throughout 2025. In mainland companies. China has also imposed its own mainland China remain the key risks to
sanctions, trade restrictions and other recovery.
China, authorities have reduced benchmark
measures against certain countries,
policy interest rates to support private sector
businesses and individuals. This has resulted
borrowing as demand for loans has
in efforts to de-risk certain sectors with the
weakened. Further fiscal and monetary
reshoring of manufacturing activities.
easing is expected to support local
Strategic
report

[PAGE 40]

Strategic Report
Managing risk continued
In mainland China an excess of inventory and appetite to inform our strategic and financial Climate stress tests
low confidence have resulted in the fall in plans, helping to improve the quality of Scenario analysis supports our strategy by
both commercial and residential real estate management’s decision making. The results assessing our potential exposures to climate
prices. A recovery remains contingent on from the stress tests also drive recovery and risks and vulnerabilities under a range of
reform and broader economy-wide stimulus resolution planning to help enhance the climate scenarios. Scenario analysis helps to
measures. We continue to closely monitor Group’s financial stability under various build our awareness of climate change,
market conditions and take steps to severe macroeconomic or idiosyncratic understand plausible impacts to our strategy,
proactively manage our commercial real scenarios. The selection of stress scenarios is plan for the future and meet our growing
estate portfolios. based upon the identification and assessment regulatory requirements.
of our top and emerging risks and our risk
In the fourth quarter of 2024 management In 2024, we enhanced our internal climate
appetite.
adjustments to ECL were applied to reflect scenario analysis exercise by focusing our
sector or portfolio risks that are not fully The Prudential Regulation Authority (‘PRA’) efforts on generating more granular insights
captured by our models. cancelled the 2024 Annual Cyclical Scenario for key sectors and regions to support core
stress testing exercise and instead decision-making processes. We also
We continue to assess the impact of Basel
commenced a Desk Based Stress Test continued to embed climate considerations
3.1 standards on our capital, including the
exercise, which used PRA models and their into core processes across the Group and to
release of more beneficial PRA near-final
in-house expertise to test the resilience of respond to our regulatory requirements.
rules, developments in the US and the
the UK banking system against more than Additionally, we produced several climate
associated implementation challenges.
one adverse macroeconomic scenario. HSBC stress tests for regulators around the world,
provided 2023 year-end data to support this. including the Hong Kong Monetary Authority.
We monitor, and seek to manage, the
The results of this exercise across firms were
potential implications of all the above
published in aggregate only, within the For further details of our approach to climate risk
developments on our customers and our stress testing, see ‘Insights from scenario
Financial Stability Report issued in the fourth
business. While the financial performance of analysis’ on page 223.
quarter of 2024. The PRA announced an
our operations varied by geography, our
updated Stress Testing Framework and
balance sheet and liquidity remained strong. Our operations
intends to return to a concurrent exercise in
We remain committed to investing in the
For further details of our Central and other 2025, involving the submission of stressed reliability and resilience of our technology
scenarios, see ‘Measurement uncertainty and projections. Further details will be provided
systems and critical services. We assess our
sensitivity analysis of ECL estimates’ on page by the PRA during 2025.
third parties to help ensure they deliver the
147.
standard of services we require to provide
During 2024, the Group-wide internal stress
Our risk appetite test was completed and assessed the impact resilient services to our customers. We do so
Our risk appetite sets our approach to of two contrasting scenarios envisioning to help protect our customers, affiliates and
monitoring and managing our risk exposure. It severe macroeconomic conditions over a five- counterparties, and minimise any disruption
defines our desired forward-looking risk year period. These scenarios reflected the to our services. In our approach to defending
profile and informs the strategic and financial uncertain inflation and interest rate against these threats, we invest in business
planning process. It provides a baseline to environment, heightened geopolitical and technical controls to help us prevent,
guide strategic decision making by helping tensions, banking sector challenges, and detect, manage and recover from issues in a
planned business activities to deliver an global economic stress. The outcomes timely manner within our risk appetite.
appropriate balance of return for the risk demonstrated that the Group has sufficient
We are working to balance the opportunity
assumed, while remaining within acceptable capital to withstand severe but plausible
artificial intelligence (‘AI’) presents to
risk levels. Risk appetite supports senior stress conditions. Additionally, the
accelerate delivery of our strategy with the
management in allocating financial resources conclusions drawn from this exercise will also
need for appropriate controls to be in place to
optimally to finance sustainable growth and be included in the Group Internal Capital
mitigate the associated risks. HSBC is
manage risk exposures. Adequacy Assessment Process.
committed to using AI responsibly. HSBC’s
At 31 December 2024 our CET1 ratio and Climate risk Principles for the Ethical Use of Data and AI
ECL charges were within their defined risk Climate risk relates to the financial and non- are available at www.hsbc.com/ai. We
appetite thresholds. Our CET1 capital ratio at financial impacts that may arise as a continue to refine and embed governance
31 December 2024 was 14.9%, up marginally consequence of climate change and the and controls into our risk management
compared with the prior year as capital move to a net zero economy. Climate risk can processes to help meet the Group’s needs
generation and a reduction in RWAs through impact us either directly or through our and increasing regulatory expectations for
strategic transactions were offset by relationships with our clients. These include when AI is both developed internally and
dividends, share buy-backs and organic the potential risks arising as a result of our enabled through third parties.
balance sheet growth. For further details of net zero ambition, which could lead to
We continue to focus on improving the
the key drivers of the overall CET1 ratio, see reputational concerns, and potential legal and/
quality and timeliness of the data used to
‘Own funds’ on page 205. Wholesale ECL or regulatory enforcement action if we are
inform management decisions, and are
charges during the year continued to reflect perceived to mislead stakeholders on our
progressing with the implementation of our
stress in the mainland China and Hong Kong business activities or if we fail to achieve our
strategic and regulatory change initiatives to
commercial real estate sectors however, stated net zero ambition.
help deliver the right outcomes for our
Wholesale and Retail ECL charges remained
customers, people, investors and
within appetite. We seek to manage climate risk across all our
communities.
businesses in line with our Group-wide risk
Stress tests management framework and continue to
For further details of our risk management
We regularly conduct stress tests to assess incorporate climate considerations within our framework and risks associated with our banking
the resilience of our balance sheet and our traditional risk types. and insurance manufacturing operations, see
capital adequacy, as well as to provide pages 136 and 231, respectively.
actionable insights into how key elements of For further details of our approach to climate risk
our portfolios may behave during a crisis. We management, see ‘Climate risk‘ on page 219.
use the outcomes to calibrate our risk For further details of our TCFD disclosures, see
the ‘ESG review‘ on page 444.

[PAGE 41]

Top and emerging risks
Our top and emerging risks report identifies on the financial results, reputation or management. Our suite of top and emerging
forward-looking risks so that they can be business model of the Group. We actively risks is subject to regular review by senior
considered in determining whether any manage and take actions to mitigate our top governance forums. We continue to monitor
incremental action is needed to either risks. Emerging risks are those that, while closely the identified risks and agree
prevent them from materialising or to limit they could have a material impact on our risk management actions to remediate and/or
their effect. Top risks are those that have the profile were they to occur, are not considered reduce them to acceptable levels, as
potential to have a material adverse impact immediate and are not under active required.
Risk Trend Description
Externally driven
Geopolitical and ~ Our operations and portfolios are subject to risks arising from political instability, civil unrest and military conflict, which could
macroeconomic risks lead to disruption of our operations, physical risk to our staff and/or physical damage to our assets. We are also subject to
cyclical and idiosyncratic macroeconomic risks. Among the key risks to the economic outlook is the prospective recalibration
of economic and trade policies following elections in the US and other markets in 2024. This could prove disruptive to the
global economy.
Technology and ~ There is an increased risk of service disruption or loss of data resulting from technology failures or malicious activities from
cybersecurity risk internal or external threats. We continue to monitor changes to the technology and threat landscape, including those arising
from ongoing geopolitical and macroeconomic events and the impact this may have on third-party risk management. We
operate a continuous improvement programme to help support the resilience and stability of our technology operations and
counter a fast-evolving and heightened cyber threat environment.
Environmental, social ~ We are subject to ESG risks, including in relation to climate change, nature and human rights. These risks have increased
and governance owing to the pace and volume of regulatory developments globally, signs of diverging national agendas, increasing frequency
(‘ESG’) risks of severe weather events, which require careful monitoring, and may impact financial and non-financial risks due to
stakeholders placing more emphasis on financial institutions’ actions and investment decisions in respect of ESG matters.
Failure to meet these evolving expectations may result in financial and non-financial risks, including reputational, legal and
regulatory compliance risks.
Financial crime risk ~ We are exposed to financial crime risk from our customers, staff and third parties engaging in criminal activity. The financial
crime risk environment is heightened due to increasingly complex geopolitical challenges, the macroeconomic outlook, the
complex and dynamic nature of sanctions and export control compliance, evolving financial crime regulations, rapid
technological developments, an increasing number of national data privacy requirements and the increasing sophistication of
fraud. As a result, we will continue to face the possibility of regulatory enforcement and reputational risk.
Digitalisation and ~ Developments in technology and changes in regulations continue to enable new entrants to the banking industry as well as
technological new products and services offered by competitors. This challenges us to continue to innovate with new digital capabilities and
advances evolve our products, to attract, retain and best serve our customers. Along with opportunities, new technology, including
generative AI, can introduce risks and disruption. We seek to manage technology developments with appropriate controls and
oversight.
Evolving regulatory } The regulatory and compliance risk environment is set against continued geopolitical risk and regulatory focus on operational
environment risk resilience, financial resilience, model risk, ESG, financial crime and risk management practices. Multiple jurisdictions are
progressing the implementation of Basel 3.1 standards to various timescales, some of which are being delayed. The
governmental and regulatory focus on improving pro-business growth is also driving legislative and regulatory change.
Internally driven
Data risk } We use data to serve our customers and run our operations, often in real-time within digital experiences and processes. If our
data is not accurate and timely, our ability to serve customers, operate with resilience or meet regulatory requirements could
be impacted. We seek to ensure that non-public data is kept confidential, and that we comply with the growing number of
regulations that govern data privacy and cross-border movement of data.
Risks arising from the } We procure goods and services from a range of third parties. Due to the current macroeconomic and geopolitical climate, the
receipt of services risk of service disruption in our supply chain remains heightened. We continue to strengthen our controls, oversight and risk
from third parties management policies and processes to select and manage third parties, including our third parties’ own supply chains,
particularly for key activities that could affect our operational resilience.
Model risk ~ Model risk arises whenever business decision making includes reliance on models. We use models in both financial and non-
financial contexts, as well as in a range of business applications. Evolving regulatory requirements are driving material
changes to the way model risk is managed across the banking industry, with a particular focus on capital models. New
technologies, including AI and generative AI, are driving a need for enhanced model risk controls.
Change execution risk } Delivering change effectively is critical to achieving our strategy and enables us to meet rapidly-evolving customer and
stakeholder needs. We seek to deliver complex change in line with established risk management processes, prioritising
sustainable outcomes and understanding the associated risks. We focus on meeting industry and regulatory expectations and
fulfilling our obligations to customers and clients.
Risks associated with ~ Our businesses, functions and geographies are exposed to risks associated with employee retention and talent availability,
workforce capability, changing skills requirements of our workforce, and compliance with employment laws and regulations. Attrition across the
capacity and Group remains stable, but failure to manage these risks may impact the delivery of our strategic objectives or lead to
environmental factors regulatory sanctions or legal claims, and the risks are heightened during the current period of fundamental organisational
with potential impact change.
on growth
}
~ Risk heightened during 2024 Risk remained at the same level as 2023
Strategic
report

[PAGE 42]

Strategic Report
Long-term viability and going
concern statement
Under the UK Corporate Governance Code, term viability, including those that would increases and strained economic and
the Directors are required to provide a viability threaten its solvency and liquidity. They diplomatic relations between China and the
statement that must state whether the Group determined that the principal risks are the US, the UK, the EU and other countries;
will be able to continue in operation and meet Group’s top and emerging risks as set out on
– reports and updates regarding regulatory and
its liabilities, taking into account its current page 39. These include geopolitical and
internal stress testing. In 2024 the Bank of
position and the principal risks it faces. They macroeconomic risks (including geopolitical
England completed their Desk Based Stress
must also specify the period covered by, and tensions and their impact on sanctions, trade
Test exercise to assess the resilience of the
the appropriateness of, this statement. restrictions and tariff increases, and
UK banking system. The stress scenario
continued distressed Chinese economic
The Directors have specified a period of three explored the potential impacts of a number
activity), digitalisation and technological
years to 31 December 2027. They are satisfied of adverse macroeconomic conditions,
advances, financial crime risk and ESG risks,
that a forward-looking assessment of the including global aggregate demand and
all of which have remained at heightened
Group for this period is sufficient to enable a supply shock, global commodity prices and
levels during 2024.
reasonable statement of viability. In addition, supply-chain disruptions from increased
this period is covered by the Group’s stress The Directors assessed that all of the top and geopolitical tensions, uncertain inflation
testing programmes, and its internal emerging risks identified are considered to be across advanced economies and rapidly
projections for profitability, key capital ratios material and, therefore, appropriate to be changing interest rates. Additionally, HSBC
and leverage ratios. Notwithstanding this, our classified as the principal risks to be completed the 2024 Group-wide internal
stress testing programmes also cover considered in the assessment of viability. They stress test, which explored the impact of
scenarios out to five years and our also appraised the impact that these principal two contrasting scenarios depicting severe
assessments of risks are beyond three years risks could have on the Group’s risk profile, macroeconomic conditions over a five-year
where appropriate (see page 131): taking account of mitigating actions planned or period, reflecting banking sector strains and
taken for each, and compared this with the global economic stress. The results of both
– This period is representative of the time Group’s risk appetite as approved by the these exercises indicated the Group is
horizon to consider the impact of ongoing Board. sufficiently capitalised to withstand severe
regulatory changes in the financial services but plausible adverse stress;
industry. In carrying out their assessment of the
– the results of our 2024 internal climate
principal risks, the Directors considered a wide
– Our updated business plan covers 2025 – scenario analysis exercise further
range of information including:
2029. demonstrate the Group is sufficiently
The Board, having made appropriate enquiries, – details of the Group’s business and capitalised to withstand severe stress.
is satisfied that the Group as a whole has operating models, and strategy (see page Further details of the insights from the 2024
adequate resources to continue operations for 11); climate scenario analysis are explained from
page 223;
a period of at least 12 months from the date of – details of the Group’s approach to managing
this report, and it therefore continues to adopt risk and allocating capital; – reports and updates from management on
the going concern basis in preparing the risk-related issues selected for in-depth
– a summary of the Group’s financial position
financial statements. consideration;
considering performance, its ability to
Based upon their assessment, the Directors maintain minimum levels of regulatory – reports and updates on regulatory
have a reasonable expectation that the Group capital, liquidity funding and the minimum developments;
will be able to continue in operation and meet requirements for own funds and eligible – legal proceedings and regulatory matters set
liabilities as they fall due over the next three liabilities over the period of the assessment. out in Note 35 on the financial statements;
years. Notable are the risks which the Directors and
believe could adversely impact the Group’s
In making their going concern and viability – reports and updates from management on
future results or operations;
assessments, the Directors have considered a the operational resilience of the Group.
wide range of detailed information relating to – enterprise risk reports, including the
present and potential conditions, including Group’s risk appetite profile (see page 127)
projections for profitability, liquidity, capital and top and emerging risks (see page 131); Aileen Taylor
requirements and capital resources. – the impact on the Group due to the Russia- Group Chief People & Governance Officer
Ukraine war and conflict in the Middle East;
The Directors carried out a robust 19 February 2025
uncertainty around Hong Kong and mainland
assessment of the emerging and principal
China’s commercial real estate sector,
risks facing the Group to determine its long-
potential trade restrictions and tariff

[PAGE 43]

Environmental,
social and
governance
review
Our ESG review sets out our approach to our 42 Environmental
environment, customers, employees and 63 Social
73 Governance
governance. It explains how we aim to achieve
our purpose, deliver our strategy in a way that is
sustainable, and build strong relationships with all
of our stakeholders.
How we present our TCFD disclosures
Our overall approach to TCFD can be found on page 18 and
additional information is included on pages 444 to 450. Further
details have been embedded in this section and the Risk review
section on pages 219 to 228. Our TCFD disclosures are highlighted
with the following symbol: TCFD
Shanghai, China, 1870s. Waterfront View.
ESG
review

[PAGE 44]

ESG review | Environment
Environmental
TCFD
Transition to net zero
We aim to support the transition to net zero and a sustainable future
in partnership with our customers and other stakeholders
At a glance
Supporting the transition to net zero is a key customers on their transition plans, managing transition plan review referenced in our 3Q24
priority for HSBC. In 2020, we set an ambition to the products and services that we offer, and earnings release in October.
become a net zero bank by 2050. We continue adapting the financing choices we make to help
As we calibrate our approach for the latest
to develop our capabilities, products and services move the world towards a resilient, net zero
context, we will seek to balance being ambitious
to support our customers’ transition, reduce economy.
on net zero while recognising the present near-
emissions in our own operations and partner for
We have set 2030 targets that combine financed term global challenges and the associated
systemic change.
and facilitated emissions for the oil and gas impact of the transition playing out differently
We believe supporting our customers’ transition sector on an absolute emissions reduction basis, across the regions and sectors we serve. In
both benefits their business and helps generate and for the power and utilities sector using an doing so we plan to draw on the latest scientific
long-term financial returns for our shareholders. emissions intensity metric. We have also set a evidence and credible industry-specific
Since we set our net zero ambition, we have target for on-balance sheet financed emissions pathways, while, at the same time, maintaining
seen promising progress in some vital areas of for thermal coal mining. our commitment under our 2021 Climate
the decarbonisation challenge. Yet while the For demand-side sectors, we have set 2030 Resolution.
transition has progressed, the global pace of
emissions intensity targets to reflect the need to Own operations and supply chain
change remains insufficient. We are limited by,
scale up low-emissions technologies while In 2020, we set an ambition to reach net zero in
and cannot on our own overcome, the present
transitioning away from existing high-emitting our operations and supply chain by 2030. Our
lag in policy measures and the overall slower
technologies in transport and industry. As part of approach is to reduce emissions from
pace of the transition.
our financial reporting, we present the progress consumption, replace consumption with low-
In our net zero transition plan published in for these sectors against our published financed emissions alternatives, and remove remaining
January 2024 we committed to continually emissions baselines and targets. emissions with high-quality carbon credits, in line
calibrate our approach to take into consideration As we have set out in our net zero transition with external guidance.
the latest scientific methodologies, climate-
plan, we must acknowledge that there are We continue to make good progress in driving
related policies, and developments in the real
fundamental prerequisites, outside of our down our direct emissions. However, progress
world, given that our sector portfolios reflect
control, which impact our ability to meet our in reducing scope 3 emissions in our supply
progress in the regional economies where we
2030 interim financed emissions targets. These chain is proving slower than we anticipated,
operate. As we near the mid-point towards our
include technological advancements, driven mainly by the slower pace of the transition
own 2030 targets, it is important to take stock of
diversification of the energy mix, market demand across the real economy.
our own progress so far. We have made good
for climate solutions, evolving customer
progress in reducing the emissions from our While we remain committed to our approach, it
preferences, and government leadership and
own operations but more uneven progress has become clear that we would need to rely
effective policy.
towards our ambitions for our financed heavily on carbon offsets to achieve net zero in
emissions footprint. At the current pace of decarbonisation, a our supply chain by 2030. As such, we have
combination of the above factors has led to the revisited our ambition to take into account latest
Financed emissions transition being slower than envisaged by recent best practice guidance on carbon offsets. We are
Our strategy is to support emissions reductions Paris-aligned net zero scenarios. Against this now focused on achieving net zero across our
in the wider economy by working with our background, we have begun a review of our operations, travel and supply chain by 2050.
portfolio of customers to facilitate the emissions interim 2030 financed emission targets and
reductions they are seeking to make. We associated policies as part of the annual net zero
continue to focus on engaging with our
In this section
Understanding We continue to evolve our disclosures taking into consideration data Page 43
our climate limitations and other challenges, and provide an overview of key changes for
reporting 2024.
Supporting our Sustainable finance and We seek to support our customers’ transition to net zero, including through Page 45
customers investment the provision and facilitation of sustainable finance and investment solutions.
Partnering for Supporting systemic change We focus on building partnerships that help support an enabling environment for Page 47
systemic change to help deliver net zero scaling net zero solutions in the geographies most impacted by climate change.
Embedding net Financed emissions We aim to align our financed emissions to achieve net zero by 2050. Page 48
zero Net zero in our own We aim to achieve net zero in our own operations, travel and supply chain by Page 58
operations 2050, in line with our overarching net zero ambition.
Managing climate risk We manage climate risk across our businesses in line with our Group-wide risk Page 60
management framework and continue to enhance our stress testing and
scenario analysis capability to identify and understand climate-related risks.
Sustainability risk policies Our sustainability risk policies help to set out our appetite for financing and Page 61
advisory activities in certain sectors.

[PAGE 45]

Understanding our climate reporting
Continuing to evolve our climate Lack of consistency across sustainable
disclosures finance taxonomies Key changes to our 2024 disclosures
We engage with standard setters to support Sustainable finance metrics, taxonomies and We are committed to timely and
the development of transparent and consistent practices currently lack global consistency. As transparent reporting. However, we
climate-related industry standards in areas such standards develop and regulatory guidance recognise that challenges may result in us
as product labelling, sustainability disclosures, evolves across jurisdictions, our targets, having to change certain disclosures. In
sustainable finance taxonomy and emissions methodologies and disclosures may also 2024, there was an impact on certain
accounting. In 2025, we will continue to review need to adapt. Recognising these challenges, climate disclosures, including:
and enhance our approach to disclosures. we have developed and disclosed our – Financed emissions for the automotive,
Sustainable Finance and Investment Data thermal coal mining and aviation sectors:
Internal and external data challenges Dictionary to accompany reporting against our In 2024, we made a methodological
The effective measurement, governance and sustainable financing and investment change to the way we calculate
reporting of progress against our climate ambition. For further details, see page 45. financed emissions for our automotive
ambitions relies heavily on the availability and clients. In addition, we identified errors
quality of both internal and external data. The evolution of the dictionary could lead to in both the thermal coal mining and
Newer data sources and topics may be difficult differences in year-on-year reporting. We aviation sectors, including errors in
to assure using traditional verification continue to engage with standard setters in lending product codes. These changes
techniques. This, coupled with diverse external different regions to support the development have resulted in a 25% decrease in
data sources and complex structures, further of transparent and consistent taxonomies to emissions reported for automotive and a
complicates data consolidation. Our internal encourage science-based decarbonisation, 30% increase in emissions reported for
data on customer groups that was used to particularly in high transition risk sectors. aviation in 2022 figures, and a 18%
source financial exposure and emissions data, increase in emissions reported for
is based on credit and relationship Impact on our reporting and financial thermal coal mining in the 2020 baseline
management factors and is not always aligned statements figure on an absolute financed
with the need to analyse emissions across We have assessed the impact of climate risk emissions basis. For further details, see
sector value chains. This can result in on our balance sheet and have concluded that page 51.
inconsistencies in our financed emissions no incremental adjustments were needed to – Thermal coal exposure: we continue to
calculations. capture climate impacts in our financial refine our basis of preparation and have
statements for the year ended 31 December made further enhancements in 2024.
We continue to invest in the development of 2024. The effects of climate change are a For further details, see page 62.
data and analytics capabilities to support our source of uncertainty. We capture known and – Supply chain emissions: we have
transition. This includes sourcing more reliable observable potential impacts of climate- restated our supply chain emissions due
data from external providers. We are also related risks in our asset valuations and to revisions in our methodology and an
developing our processes, systems, controls balance sheet calculations. These are error in the mapping of industry averages.
and governance to meet the demands of future considered in relevant areas of our balance This has resulted in a 25% increase to
ESG reporting. sheet, including expected credit losses, our 2019 baseline emissions and a 2%
classification and measurement of financial increase to our 2023 reported emissions.
Given our dependency on collecting emissions
instruments, goodwill and other intangible For further details, see page 59.
data from our clients and the manual nature of
assets; and in making the long-term viability
the process, enhanced verification and – Asset management financed emissions
and going concern assessment. As part of
assurance procedures are performed on a 2019 baseline: we have re-baselined our
assessing the impact on our financial
sample basis over this data, including the first 2019 intensity figure due to an error in
statements we conducted scenario analysis
and second lines of defence. Our climate the issuer mapping and is now 124
to understand the impact of climate risk on
models undergo independent review by an tCO2e/M$ invested versus 131 tCO2e/
our business (see pages 60 and 223). For
internal model review group, and we obtain M$ invested reported in the Annual
further details of how management
limited assurance on our financed emissions Report and Accounts 2022. For further
considered the impact of climate-related risks
details, see page 57.
and sustainable finance disclosures from
on its financial position and performance, see
external parties, including our external auditors. – Energy consumption: We have restated
‘Critical estimates and judgements’ on page
our 2019 metric for total energy
354.
Policies and implementation consumption due to an error. For further
We continue to review and enhance Progress on our net zero transition plan details, see page 59
implementation of sustainability risk policies as
We continue to take actions across our
we apply them in practice. They are reviewed
organisation to support the implementation of
and, where appropriate, updated based on
our net zero transition plan. This report
factors including risk materiality,
provides key updates on our progress in 2024
implementation experience, evolving scientific
and our annual TCFD reporting.
guidance, updated climate scenarios, policy
and regulatory requirements and evolving For further details of our climate risk exposures,
industry practices. see page 219.
ESG
review

[PAGE 46]

ESG review | Environment
Explaining scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions
To measure and manage our greenhouse gas Our own Scope 2 Scope 3 Scope 1 Scope 31 Our financed
emissions, we follow the Greenhouse Gas Protocol operations and Indirect Indirect Direct Indirect emissions See
supply chain page 48
global framework, which identifies three scopes See page 58
of emissions. Scope 1 represents the direct
emissions we create. Scope 2 represents the
indirect emissions resulting from the use of
electricity and energy to run a business. Scope 3 Electricity, Purchased Company
represents indirect emissions attributed to upstream h s e t a e a n a t d i m n g go se o r d v s ic a e n s d facilities
and downstream activities. Our upstream activities cooling (Category 1)
include business travel and emissions from our
supply chain including transport, distribution and
Company
waste. Our downstream activities include those
vehicles
related to investments and including financed
emissions.
Under the protocol, scope 3 emissions are also
Business travel Capital goods Investments and
broken down into 15 categories, of which we (Category 6) (Category 2) financed emissions
(category 15)
provide reporting emissions data for three related
to upstream activities. These are: purchased goods
and services (category 1); capital goods (category 2); Upstream activities HSBC Holdings Downstream activities
and business travel (category 6). We also report
data on downstream activities for financed
emissions (category 15).
For further breakdown of our scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions, see our ESG Data Pack at www.hsbc.com/esg.
1 Our analysis of financed emissions comprises ‘on-balance sheet financed emissions’ and ‘facilitated emissions’.
Assurance relating to ESG metrics TCFD
HSBC Holdings plc is responsible for Reviews of Historical Financial Information’ The work performed for independent limited
preparation of the ESG information and all and, in respect of the greenhouse gas assurance is substantially less than the work
supporting records, including selecting emissions, in accordance with the International performed for a reasonable assurance opinion,
appropriate measurement and reporting Standard on Assurance Engagements 3410 such as that provided for financial statements.
Our data dictionaries and methodologies for
2024, ESG Data Pack and the additional reports Statements’, issued by the International preparing the above ESG-related metrics and
published on our website. Auditing and Assurance Standards Board, on independent third-party limited assurance reports
the following specific ESG metrics: can be found at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-
We recognise the importance of ESG and-responsible-business/esg-reporting-centre.
disclosures and the quality of data underpinning – our use of proceeds from Green Bond
them. We also acknowledge that our internal issuances 2024 (published in December
processes to support ESG disclosures continue 2024);
to be developed and that currently they partly – our cumulative sustainable finance and
rely on manual sourcing and categorisation of investment provided and facilitated from
data. Certain aspects of our ESG disclosures are 1 January 2020 to 31 December 2024 (see
subject to enhanced verification and assurance page 45);
procedures including the first, second and third – our on-balance sheet financed emissions for
lines of defence. Assurance assists with 2023 for six sectors, our on-balance sheet
reducing the risk of misstatement, although it financed emissions for 2021 and 2022 for
cannot be fully eliminated given the challenges thermal coal mining, and our facilitated
in data, evolving methodologies and emerging emissions for two sectors for 2023 (see
standards. We aim to continue to enhance our page 56);
approach in line with external regulations and
– our thermal coal financing drawn balance
expectations.
exposures for 2021 and 2022 (see page 62);
For 2024, ESG metrics are subject to stand- – our own operations’ scope 1, 2 and 3
alone independent limited third-party assurance (business travel) greenhouse gas emissions
in accordance with the International Standard data (see page 59), as well as supply chain
on Assurance Engagements 3000 (Revised) emissions (purchased good and services, and
‘Assurance Engagements other than Audits or capital goods) data; and
– our re-baselined 2019 intensity metric and the
scope 1 and 2 financed emission intensity
achieved by 31 December 2023 for our HSBC
asset management business (see page 57).

[PAGE 47]

Supporting our customers
Sustainable finance and investment TCFD
We aim to help our customers transition to Dictionary 2024. This included 39% where On-balance sheet sustainable lending
net zero and a sustainable future by providing the use of proceeds was dedicated to green transactions increased by 11% compared
and facilitating between $750bn and $1tn of financing, 12% to social financing, and 15% with 2023. In 2024, transactions totalling
sustainable finance and investment by 2030. to other sustainable financing. It also included $0.5bn were identified as no longer fulfilling
Our sustainable finance and investment 24% of sustainability-linked financing and our eligibility criteria. These were declassified
ambition aims to help promote green, 10% of net new investment flows managed and removed from the cumulative progress
sustainable and socially-focused business and and distributed on behalf of investors. total, and reported as a negative entry in
sustainable investment products and 2024. Since 1 January 2020, the cumulative
In 2024, our underwriting of green, social,
solutions. amount declassified from the total is $1.2bn.
sustainability and sustainability-linked bonds
Since 1 January 2020, we have provided and for clients increased over the year, measured Continued progress towards achieving our
facilitated a cumulative $352.5bn of on a proportional share basis, in line with the sustainable finance and investment ambition
sustainable finance and $41.1bn of ESG and wider bond market environment, although it is dependent on market demand for the
sustainable investing, as defined in our remained at 15% of our total bond products and services set out in our
Sustainable Finance and Investment Data underwriting. Sustainable Finance and Investment Data
Dictionary 2024.
Cumulative
progress
2024 2023 2022 2021 2020 since 2020
Sustainable finance and investment summary1 ($bn) ($bn) ($bn) ($bn) ($bn) ($bn)
Balance sheet-related transactions provided2 47.4 42.7 42.2 26.0 10.4 168.7
Capital markets/advisory (facilitated) 37.3 33.3 34.5 48.7 30.0 183.8
ESG and sustainable investing (net new flows) 14.5 7.7 7.5 7.7 3.7 41.1
Total contribution6 99.2 83.7 84.2 82.4 44.1 393.6
Sustainable finance and investment classification by theme1
Green use of proceeds5 42.2 37.1 29.0 27.1 18.9 154.3
Social use of proceeds 9.6 8.4 6.7 11.3 9.7 45.7
Other sustainable use of proceeds3 13.9 10.7 12.6 11.7 8.3 57.2
Sustainability-linked4 19.0 19.8 28.4 24.6 3.5 95.3
ESG and sustainable investing 14.5 7.7 7.5 7.7 3.7 41.1
Total contribution6 99.2 83.7 84.2 82.4 44.1 393.6
1 The 2024 data in this table has been prepared in accordance with our Sustainable Finance and Investment Data Dictionary 2024, which includes green, social and
sustainability activities. The amounts provided and facilitated include: the limits agreed for balance sheet-related transactions provided (including drawn and
undrawn amounts), the proportional share of facilitated capital markets/advisory activities and ESG and sustainable investing net new flows of both HSBC-owned
(Asset Management) sustainable investment funds and Wealth and Global Private Banking investments.
2 In 2024 only 9 months of WPB green/energy efficient mortgages were included for the first time within Other Qualified Green Lending, future years’ reporting will
include 12 months of transactions.
3 Sustainable use of proceeds can be used for green, social or a combination of green and social purposes, assessed by HSBC against internal standards and
relevant industry guidelines.
4 Sustainability-linked products, where the coupon or interest rate is dependent on whether the borrower achieves certain pre-defined sustainability performance
target(s), are assessed by HSBC against internal standards and relevant industry guidelines and can be used for general purposes, which may be sustainable or
non-sustainable.
5 Included within the total cumulative contribution towards our ambition are transactions to customers within the six high transition risk sectors (i.e. automotive,
chemicals, construction and building materials, metal and mining, oil and gas, and power and utilities) as described on page 221, of which approximately $56bn is
defined as green use of proceeds in line with the Sustainable Finance and Investment Data Dictionary 2024.
6 The $393.6bn cumulative progress since 1 January 2020 is subject to independent third-party limited assurance in accordance with International Standard on
Assurance Engagements 3000 (Revised) ‘Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information’. Our Sustainable Finance and
Investment Data Dictionary 2024 and independent third-party limited assurance report is available at: www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-business/
esg-reporting-centre.
Our sustainable finance and investment data dictionary
We define sustainable finance and investment We update our data dictionary annually, We engage in industry initiatives to develop our
as any form of financial service that integrates including reviewing our product definitions, understanding and approach to ‘transition
ESG criteria into business or investment adding new qualifying products and removing finance’. However, we do not currently plan to
decisions. This includes financing, investing products that no longer qualify, making include transition finance as a product label or
and related activities that support the enhancements to our internal standards, and stand-alone category in our data dictionary and
achievement of the UN SDGs, including but developing our reporting and governance. This reporting. We will continue to monitor industry
not limited to the aims of the Paris Agreement year, we also indicate for the first time the guidance as it develops.
on climate change. types of eligible environmental and social
activities we intend to consider going forward For our 2024 ESG Data Pack and Sustainable
Our Sustainable Finance and Investment Data when qualifying certain use of proceeds Finance and Investment Data Dictionary, see
Dictionary sets out our approach for classifying financing for inclusion towards our sustainable www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-
financing and investment as sustainable for the responsible-business/esg-reporting-centre.
finance and investment ambition including:
purpose of tracking and disclosing our
climate solutions; nature; adaptation and social-
performance against our sustainable finance
related activities.
and investment ambition.
ESG
review

[PAGE 48]

ESG review | Environment
Sustainable finance and investment continued TCFD
Leveraging our strengths Pentagreen Capital, our joint venture with companies in the Google Cloud Ready
We are focused on three key areas that play to Singapore investment firm Temasek targets Sustainability programme, and support them to
our strengths as an organisation and can help marginally bankable clean energy and adaptation scale up. These companies can now access
deliver an impact on decarbonisation in the projects in Southeast Asia to support them to HSBC products and services that are tailored to
global economy, particularly in Asia-Pacific and commercial scale, with the aim of accelerating the their specific growth ambitions, including
the Middle East where the need for financing at transition to a low carbon economy. Pentagreen venture debt financing options and support from
scale is most critical. In 2024, we were named Capital completed its second deal in 2024: a green our specialist climate tech finance team.
the world’s best bank for sustainable finance in loan for BE C&I Solutions to catalyse the
Decarbonising trade and supply chains
the Euromoney Awards for Excellence. construction of distributed sustainable bioenergy
We continue to focus on helping to decarbonise
projects across Southeast Asia and India.
Transitioning industry trade flows and supply chains through our green
We support our clients in emissions-intensive To support our WPB customers, HSBC UK trade finance and sustainable trade instruments,
industries with their transition goals by engaging launched Energy Efficient Home Cashback sustainable supply chain financing and
with them on their transition plans and by Mortgages, to offer cashback incentives to sustainability-linked lending for trade.
providing financing solutions. customers taking out our mortgage loans to
We supported PDS Limited, a global fashion
finance their purchases of residential properties
In 2024, we refreshed transition plan infrastructure platform, on a trade facility to
with an A or B EPC rating.
assessments for major clients in the oil and gas, enable deployment of working capital linked to
power and utilities and coal mining sectors, and Catalysing the new economy the successful delivery of environmental and
we began assessing major clients in the We aim to support clean industrial development social targets across their operations, aligned to
automotive, aviation, cement, steel and and the scaling of entrepreneurial new economy their ESG approach.
aluminium sectors, to better understand their companies at all stages of financing across the
Mid-market and smaller businesses make up a
objectives and identify opportunities to enable markets we operate in. We do this through
large proportion of global supply chains. In 2024,
their decarbonisation strategies. direct financing and investment as well as
we expanded our sustainable finance
through catalytic partnerships.
Development of clean power generation is capabilities with the launch of a sustainability
critical to achieving net zero. We supported Abu We continue to work closely with Breakthrough improvement loan (‘SIL’) for businesses of this
Dhabi Future Energy Company (Masdar) towards Energy in developing and deploying critical size in Hong Kong and Singapore, broadening
its equity commitments on new greenfield climate solutions. We are an anchor partner in the sustainable finance options available in the
projects in renewable energy and energy the Breakthrough Energy Catalyst platform, region. We recently completed our first SIL
efficiency, by acting as joint lead manager and which provides expertise, resources and capital transaction in Asia-Pacific with Opal Cosmetics,
bookrunner in raising $1bn through its second into first-of-a-kind or first commercial scale a manufacturer and seller of personal care and
green bond issuance. projects. Additionally, in 2024 we directly beauty products headquartered in Hong Kong
supported a number of Breakthrough Energy and with a global supply chain. The proceeds
Scaling infrastructure finance plays an important
Ventures portfolio companies with venture debt from the facility will support the company’s
role in meeting global decarbonisation
and other banking services. We acted as a lead general working capital needs and ongoing
objectives. In 2024, we launched HSBC
arranger in a $100m credit facility for US-based research and development activities. We now
Infrastructure Finance (‘HIF’), which brings
Electric Hydrogen to support the manufacturing offer sustainability improvement loans to clients
together our infrastructure finance, export
and deployment of the company’s electrolyser in 11 markets.
finance, and debt/project finance capabilities to
plants in producing green hydrogen.
increase our capacity to realise opportunities in For more examples of how we are supporting
the transition to a low carbon economy. In 2024, we launched a partnership with Google our customers, see additional case studies on
pages 19, 48, 49, 50, 51, and 57.
Cloud to offer banking support for climate tech
ESG and sustainable investing
We offer a broad suite of ESG and sustainable can include, but are not limited to, climate or discretionary and alternatives. In 2024, we
investing solutions across asset management, net-zero transition plans and controversies continued to expand our investment offering with
wealth, private banking, and insurance, to help identified related to UN SDGs. the launch of eight ESG and sustainable investing
institutional and individual investors generate mutual funds and ETFs. We regularly publish
For the avoidance of doubt, products or assets
financial returns, manage risk and pursue ESG- insights to help our clients better understand the
invested pursuant to our ESG and sustainable
related objectives in line with their preferences. ESG implications of their investments.
investing approach do not necessarily qualify as
As at 31 December 2024, HSBC Asset ‘sustainable investments’ as defined by the EU In 2024, we made updates to integrate ESG into
Management managed $179.8bn in ESG and Sustainable Finance Disclosure Regulation and/or our client wealth advisory journey in both
sustainable investing portfolios for internal and other relevant regulations, and may not qualify as Switzerland and Luxembourg, including building
external investors. This includes those that are ‘sustainable’ products for the purposes of the UK capabilities to understand private banking
distributed by HSBC Wealth and Private Banking Sustainability Disclosure Requirements and clients’ sustainability preferences, rebalance
and those HSBC Asset Management manages European Securities and Markets Authority fund their investment portfolios and monitor
on behalf of HSBC Life. naming guidance and/or any other regulatory portfolios in line with their preferences. We also
standards. The HSBC ESG and sustainable integrated client sustainability preferences into
HSBC Asset Management recognises that its
investing approach is an internal classification the investment product filtering process for
clients’ investment objectives are evolving, and
used to establish our own ESG and sustainable retail wealth clients in Hong Kong.
sustainability preferences vary, and offers a
investing standards and to promote consistency
broad range of sustainable investing solutions, in In 2024, HSBC Life increased ESG and
across asset classes and HSBC business lines
both traditional and alternative areas of sustainable investing assets across its insurance
where relevant. Our ESG and sustainable
investment. Our ESG and sustainable investing manufacturing entities in Asia, Europe, and Latin
investing approach should not be relied on
approach includes impact funds with a clear America. The majority of these newly-deployed
externally to assess the sustainability
ESG or sustainable objective, thematic funds assets were green and sustainability-linked
characteristics of any given product.
that seek to invest in ESG or sustainable trends, bonds, followed by placements into sustainable
and strategies that seek to mitigate ESG risks by For our private banking and wealth customers, private credit funds.
investing assets with higher ESG performance we offer a range of ESG and sustainable investing
For further details of our asset management
and exclusions of those that are lower ESG products across different asset classes, including
policies, see page 62.
performing. Considerations across our approach mutual funds, ETFs, equities, fixed income,

[PAGE 49]

Partnering for systemic change
Supporting systemic change to help deliver net zero
We focus on building strategic partnerships that technologies. The partnership seeks to provide
can help to create an enabling environment for capacity building and facilitate connections with Our just transition approach
mobilising finance, and support development the investment community to support the The transition to net zero is expected to
and scaling-up of solutions for the net zero development and scaling of key climate drive social changes on a global scale,
transition. For example, in 2024 we made a technologies. presenting risks and opportunities for our
strategic investment in sustainable aviation fuel clients and our stakeholders. Our net
(‘SAF’) through a one-time purchase agreement Our partnership with the Venture Climate zero transition plan sets out our initial
for approximately 1.2m US gallons of SAF Alliance (‘VCA’) supports venture capital firms to approach to incorporating just transition
produced by EcoCeres, which will be used to shape and share best practices that help to considerations. We are taking steps to
refuel Cathay Pacific aircraft at Hong Kong prepare them for the climate transition at the embed just transition principles into our
International Airport. earliest stages of business creation. Work is client engagement activities, our own
underway on developing a climate solutions operations, and our financing decisions.
We continue to participate in several framework to support portfolio-level climate
sustainability-related cross-industry alliances and impact disclosure and expand VCA membership HSBC Asset Management, in line with
initiatives to help stimulate industry engagement across emerging markets. relevant stewardship activities,
on climate and nature-related issues, encourage encourages companies to identify and
the flow of finance for the net zero transition, We are supporting Apparel Impact Institute’s address the impacts of their climate
and improve global financial standards, (‘Aii’) Fashion Climate Fund, which aims to strategy on stakeholders, including
guidance, and frameworks to mobilise finance mobilise $2bn in blended finance to halve workers, suppliers, and the communities
and accelerate action. carbon emissions from the sector by 2030. We in which they operate. This may include
have leveraged our trade finance expertise to specific metrics or objectives in relation,
Through our philanthropy, we partner with a provide insights and help inform Aii’s ‘Brand but not limited to, employee training and
range of non-governmental organisations to Playbook for Financing Decarbonisation’ and the development, green job creation,
develop thought leadership, spur innovation, ‘Landscape and Opportunities to Finance the safeguarding workers’ rights and support
build capacity and test and scale climate Decarbonisation of India’s Apparel for affected communities.
solutions. Manufacturing Sector’.
We are a founding funder of the Just
Highlights from our net zero and Climate Solutions Partnership Transition Finance Lab, hosted at the
sustainability-aligned partnerships Our five-year Climate Solutions Partnership with LSE’s Grantham Research Institute,
In 2024 we donated approximately $9m in grant the World Resources Institute, WWF and over which aims to accelerate solutions to
funding to help establish a portfolio of 50 local partners, continues to support nature- achieve progress on climate and wider
partnerships aligned to the strategic focus areas based solutions and energy transition in Asia. environmental goals through a people-
set out in our net zero transition plan: centred approach. Since its launch in
Since 2020, $105m in funding has been
transitioning industry, catalysing the new early 2024, the Lab has produced a range
deployed to our NGO partners. The energy
economy, and decarbonising trade and supply of outputs including: mapping just
programmes have engaged companies across
chains. We are also supporting initiatives transition policies to a set of metrics,
Asia to help set new standards in climate
focused on driving progress on cross-cutting exploration of the role investors can play
commitments for their industries and mobilised
issues, such as nature and the just transition. in facilitating a just transition in India, a
finance to support the uptake of renewables.
case study of the coal-to-clean shift in
Our collaboration with the Mission Possible The nature programmes supported the Asia
Chile, and a detailed examination of the
Partnership seeks to support decarbonisation of Sustainable Palm Oil Links programme, focused
financial path to a just transition in the
some of the world’s hard-to-abate heavy on promoting sustainable palm oil production,
critical minerals sector.
industry and transport sectors. We are funding a consumption and trade across Asia, and the
joint initiative focused on demand creation for Nature-based Solutions Accelerator, which
green building materials in the Middle East, supported projects to reach investment
fostering collaboration among industry leaders, readiness.
policymakers, and innovators to unlock projects.
Through this partnership, we also launched an
We launched a new partnership with Third open-access Environmental Crimes Financial
Derivative and Founders Factory to support Toolkit to help financial institutions detect and
climate tech innovation focused on hard-to-abate monitor activities related to environmental and
sectors, particularly in Asia where there is a financial crimes. The first set of tools focuses on
significant need and growing market for such commodity-driven deforestation and land
conversion.
Our approach to nature
Around one third of the emissions reductions build nature-related skills, data capacities and clients, we began including nature-related
required to limit global warming in line with partnerships. questions in our client transition engagement
the Paris Agreement are linked to the land questionnaire.
We are taking steps to embed our approach
use system and nature.
to nature alongside delivery of our net zero Climate Asset Management, HSBC Asset
We have been further developing our implementation plans. We continue to test Management’s joint venture with climate
approach to nature, which builds on the and scale approaches to financing and investment and advisory firm Pollination, has
outline that was set out in our net zero investing in biodiversity and nature, which now raised commitments of more than $1bn
transition plan. This includes considering how has included acting as sole bookrunner and for natural capital projects around the world,
to: understand our exposure to nature; structuring bank for an Amazon reforestation- and announced the final close of its Natural
manage nature-related risks and impacts; linked outcome bond, the World Bank’s Capital and Nature Based Carbon Funds.
support our customers, including financing largest outcome bond issued to date (see
and investing in nature-related solutions; and page 19). In 2024, starting with our European
ESG
review

[PAGE 50]

ESG review | Environment
Embedding net zero
Financed emissions TCFD
As part of our ambition to become a net zero We have set combined on-balance sheet
bank by 2050, we published initial financed financed and facilitated emissions targets for
emissions targets for 2030. As we near the two emissions-intensive sectors: oil and gas,
mid-point towards our 2030 targets, we have and power and utilities. We have also set
begun a review of our interim 2030 financed targets for on-balance sheet financed
emissions targets and associated policies as emissions for the following sectors: cement;
described on page 15. This forms part of our iron, steel and aluminium; aviation;
annual net zero transition plan review automotive; and thermal coal mining.
referenced in our 3Q24 earnings release.
As part of our financial reporting, we present
Our analysis of financed emissions comprises the progress for these sectors against our
‘on-balance sheet financed emissions’ and published financed emissions baselines and
‘facilitated emissions’, which we distinguish targets.
where necessary in our reporting.
We have set absolute emissions reduction
Our on-balance sheet financed emissions targets for the oil and gas, and thermal coal
include emissions related to on-balance sheet mining sectors. For the power and utilities; Supporting India’s
lending, such as project finance and direct cement; iron, steel and aluminium; aviation;
transition to a greener
lending. Our facilitated emissions include and automotive sectors, we have set
emissions related to financing we help clients emissions intensity targets that allow us to economy
to raise through capital markets activities. Our deploy capital towards decarbonisation
analysis covers financing from Global Banking solutions. We acted as sole Export Credit Agency
and Markets, and Commercial Banking. (‘ECA’) coordinator and sole green
structurer for an inaugural $1bn green push
Financed emissions link the financing we export finance facility for Reliance
provide to our customers and their activities Industries (‘RIL’), guaranteed by the Italian
in the real economy, and provide an indication ECA, known as SACE. This was RIL’s first
of the associated greenhouse gas emissions. ever green loan and will be used to
They form part of our scope 3 emissions, primarily finance eligible green projects
which include emissions associated with the being developed by RIL’s new energy
use of a company’s products and services. business.
As India’s largest private sector company,
RIL is seeking to address India’s energy
challenges – affordability, sustainability and
security – with the aim of bridging the
green energy divide and supporting clean
energy infrastructure demand globally.
RIL’s new energy proposition is aimed at
creating a manufacturing ecosystem
including solar photovoltaics, advanced
energy storage and green chemical value
chains.
Our approach to financed emissions
In our approach to assessing our financed By estimating emissions and setting targets at 31 December in the year of analysis related
emissions, our key methodological decisions for customers that directly account for, or to wholesale credit and lending, including
were shaped in line with industry practices indirectly influence, the majority of emissions business loans and project finance, as the
and standards. We recognise these are still in each of the most carbon-emissive sectors, value of finance provided to customers. We
developing. we can focus our engagement and resources excluded products that were short term by
where we believe the potential for change is design and typically less than 12 months in
Coverage of our analysis
highest. For each sector, our reported duration to reduce volatility, having considered
Our analysis focuses on the most carbon-
emissions now typically include all the major the PCAF guidance and subject matter expert
emissive sectors and the parts of the value
greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide, opinions from the business. For facilitated
chain where we believe the majority of
methane and nitrous oxide, among others. emissions we considered all capital market
emissions are produced, to help reduce double
These are reported as tonnes of CO transactions in scope for the year of analysis.
counting of emissions. This is different to the 2
equivalent (‘tCOe’). These included debt and equity capital
scope of sectors within the wholesale 2
markets, and syndicated loans.
corporate lending portfolio that we use to To calculate annual on-balance sheet financed
manage climate risk. These sectors are set out emissions, we follow guidance from the For further details of our financed emissions
on page 221. Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials methodology, exclusions, and limitations, see
(‘PCAF’) standard. We use drawn balances as our Financed Emissions and Thermal Coal
Exposures Methodology at www.hsbc.com/who-
we-are/esg-and-responsible-business/esg-
reporting-centre.

[PAGE 51]

Financed emissions continued
The chart below shows the scope of our downstream activities within each sector. expert judgement and data available on
financed emissions analysis of the seven The allocation of companies to different parts company revenue streams. As data quality
sectors, including upstream, midstream, and of the value chain is highly dependent on improves, this will be further refined.
Coverage of
Scope of greenhouse
Sector emissions Value chain in scope gases (‘GHGs’)
Oil and gas 1, 2 and 3 All GHGs
Upstream Midstream Downstream Integrated/
(e.g. extraction) (e.g. transport) (e.g. fuel use) diversified
Power and utilities1 1 and 2 All GHGs
Upstream (e.g. Midstream Downstream Diversified utilities -
generation) (e.g. transmission and distribution) (e.g. retail) Power generation
Cement 1 and 2 All GHGs
Upstream (e.g. raw Midstream Downstream
materials, extraction) (e.g. clinker and cement manufacturing) (e.g. construction)
Iron, steel and 1 and 2 All GHGs
aluminium
Upstream (e.g. raw Midstream Downstream
materials, extraction) (e.g. ore to steel) (e.g. construction)
Aviation 1 for airlines All GHGs
3 for aircraft
Upstream (e.g. parts Midstream Downstream
lessors manufacturers) (e.g. aircraft manufacturing) (e.g. airlines and air lessors)
Automotive 1, 2 and 3 All GHGs
Upstream Midstream Downstream
(e.g. suppliers) (e.g. motor vehicle manufacture) (e.g. retail)
Thermal coal mining 1, 2 and 3 All GHGs
Upstream Midstream Downstream
(e.g. extraction) (e.g. processing) (e.g. retail)
Key: Included in analysis
1 The power and utilities value chain has been updated to show diversified utilities power generation as a separate part of the value chain. This has always been
included in-scope of the power and utilities target.
Setting our targets
Our target-setting approach to date for on- that transactions facilitated in 2028 and 2029 scientific evidence and credible industry-specific
balance sheet financed emissions and will still have an impact on the 2030 progress pathways while, at the same time, maintaining
facilitated emissions, has been to utilise a single number and will need to be taken into our commitment under our 2021 Climate
reference scenario – IEA’s NZE 2021 – to consideration as we manage progress towards Resolution.
underpin both energy supply-related sectors (oil our target.
and gas; power and utilities; and thermal coal Other sector updates
Our approach for financed emissions For the agricultural sector, due to ongoing
mining), and our published targets for demand-
accounting does not rely on purchasing credits data challenges, we are not in a position to
side sectors in transport (aviation and
to achieve any financed emissions targets we report our financed emissions or set a target at
automotive) and heavy industry (cement; and
set. this time. For commercial real estate, we
iron, steel and aluminium).
continue to work towards outlining our financed
Facilitated emissions included in our combined An evolving approach emissions ambition. For residential real estate,
In the upcoming review of our financed
metrics are weighted at 33%, in accordance we continue to expect to measure and report
emissions targets, we will seek to balance being
with the PCAF standard. To further reduce the our financed emissions in future disclosures.
ambitious on net zero while recognising present
inherent volatility in facilitated emissions, we
near-term global challenges and the associated
apply a three-year moving average across
impact of the transition playing out differently
transactions (i.e. average of 2021, 2022 and
across the regions and sectors we serve. In
2023 for the 2023 progress numbers) to track
doing so, we plan to draw on the latest
progress to our combined target. This means
Supermarket group serves up sustainability incentives
across value chain
HSBC UK has collaborated with Asda on its supply chain finance programme for over ten years. In
September 2024, as part of this ongoing partnership, we acted as the lead arranger for a new
facility, which offers $190m of financing to Asda’s suppliers on enhanced pricing terms based on a
supplier’s ESG performance.
From January 2025, the initiative will extend incentives to over 250 of Asda’s suppliers based on
their sustainability practices, as assessed by EcoVadis. This initiative showcases how major
retailers can engage their supply chains to encourage greater transparency and progress towards
wider sustainability goals.
ESG
review

[PAGE 52]

ESG review | Environment
Financed emissions continued
Data and methodology limitations
Our financed emissions estimates and – Third-party datasets that feed into our – The classification of our clients into sectors
methodological choices are shaped by the analysis may have up to a two-year lag in is performed with inputs from subject
availability of data for the sectors we analyse. reported emissions figures, and we are matter experts, and will also continue to
We are members of the PCAF, which defines working with data providers to help reduce evolve with improvements to data and our
and develops greenhouse gas accounting this. Mapping external datasets to our sector classification approach. Our internal
standards for financial institutions. Its Global internal client entities is challenging due to data on customer groups used to source
GHG Accounting and Reporting Standards for complex company ownership structures. financial exposure and emissions data is
Financed Emissions and for Facilitated based on credit and relationship
– The methodology and data used to assess
Emissions provide detailed methodological management attributes, and is not always
financed emissions and set targets are new
guidance to measure and disclose financed aligned to the data needed to analyse
and evolving, and we expect industry
and facilitated emissions. emissions across sector value chains. As
guidance, market practice, and regulations
the sub-sector, and therefore the value
– We have found that data quality scores vary to continue to change. As we undertake the
chain classification, is based on judgement,
across the different sectors and years of review of our 2030 financed emissions
this may be revised as better data becomes
our analysis. While we expect our data targets, we will use appropriate data
available. As a consequence, classification
quality scores to improve over time, as sources and current methodologies
changes can result in sectoral movement
companies continue to expand their available.
year-on-year. Emissions are calculated at a
disclosures to meet growing regulatory and – We remain conscious that the attribution counterparty group level, rather than at
stakeholder expectations, there may be factor used in the financed emissions subsidiary level, mainly due to the
fluctuations within sectors year-on-year, calculation is sensitive to changes in drawn availability of emissions data, but this may
and/or differences in the data quality scores amounts or market fluctuations, and we lead to over-or under-estimation of
between sectors due to changes in data plan to be transparent around drivers for emissions compared with calculation at the
availability. change to portfolio financed emissions counterparty level. Companies with multiple
– The majority of our clients do not yet report where possible. activities, such as conglomerates with near
the full scope of greenhouse gas emissions – We calculate sector-level emissions to equal business activity split across
included in our analysis, in particular scope intensity metrics using a portfolio-weighted multiple sectors, are excluded as these can
3 emissions at a subsidiary level. In the approach. Due to data limitations, we are have different activities covered by multiple
absence of client-reported emissions, we unable to obtain production data for all of sector targets.
estimated emissions using proxies based our clients. We therefore calculate an – The operating environment for climate
on company production and revenue emissions intensity figure using the 75th analysis and portfolio alignment is maturing.
figures. Although we sought to minimise percentile of available data points to meet We continue to work to improve our data
the use of non-company-specific data, we this data gap. management processes.
applied industry averages in our analysis
where company-specific data was For further details of our financed emissions
methodology, exclusions, and limitations, see
unavailable through our third-party datasets.
our Financed Emissions and Thermal Coal
As data improves, estimates will be
Exposures Methodology at www.hsbc.com/who-
replaced with reported figures. we-are/esg-and-responsible-business/esg-
reporting-centre.
Helping to tackle food waste emissions via innovation
Food waste is a growing issue globally with an estimated one-third of all food produced going
to waste, creating significant methane emissions. Mill, a US-based technology company,
produces a food recycler for your kitchen that turns food waste into nutrient-rich food
grounds. These food grounds can be used in composting processes or picked up and
distributed to farm partners as food for soil or animals. These pathways help to keep food out
of landfill, reuse resources and reduce emissions.
In August 2024, HSBC Innovation Banking supported Mill by providing $25m of venture debt
funding following their successful Series C fundraising. The financing supports Mill to continue
to scale its food-recycler business to consumers across the US.

[PAGE 53]

Financed emissions continued
Our approach to emissions re-baselines and restatements
The PCAF recommends that financial scope 1 and 2 emissions in our own data and targets, including where necessary a
institutions should, in line with the operations. We also now include scope or re-baseline, is required.
Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Value boundary changes as a key driver of change.
We expect our policy to evolve with further
Chain (scope 3) Accounting and Reporting HSBC Asset Management is covered by a
industry guidance.
Standard requirement, establish a different emissions re-baseline and
recalculation policy to ensure consistency, restatement framework as per page 57.
The table below outlines the key drivers of
comparability and relevance of the reported
change and what we expect to disclose when
Emissions data and related processes are
greenhouse gas emissions data over time.
thresholds are breached.
continually evolving. Therefore, we do not
Our emissions re-baseline and restatement
consider data and process enhancements to
policy defines the circumstances for a For further details of our emissions re-baseline
restatement of previously reported emissions be a key driver of change. This may change and restatement policy, see our Financed
data and targets, including a re-baseline. over time as data and processes mature. Emissions and Thermal Coal Exposures
Methodology at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/
In 2024, we reviewed and enhanced our When key drivers, in aggregate, breach our esg-and-responsible-business/esg-reporting-
policy by extending the scope to cover defined significance thresholds, a centre.
restatement of previously reported emissions
additional emissions categories, including
Key drivers of change What we expect to disclose
Changes to the emissions methodology including those driven by – A revised comparative amount for the restatement period that
changes in industry guidance/regulations reflects the new information
– The difference between the amount disclosed in the previous
Errors, such as those in the internal application or interpretation of period and the revised comparative amount
methodology, or errors in internal data – The reasons for revising the comparative amount and why the new
information provides reliable and more relevant information
Scope or boundary changes, such as acquisitions or divestments, – The actions being taken to remediate same or similar errors in the
and inventory boundary and coverage changes future
In 2024, we made the decision to amend the For the aviation sector, we restated the 2022 We are conducting a review of our controls
approach for prioritising data sources for metrics as a lending product code was for population and product codes, and aim to
automotive clients to utilise production data previously excluded in error; it is now enhance them accordingly.
as opposed to reported third-party data, included in our analysis.
We have set out in the table below the
representing a methodological change. This
For the thermal coal mining sector, we re- restated metrics for the automotive and
change was implemented to include tailpipe
baselined the 2020 metric due to three aviation sectors, and the re-baselined metric
emissions instead of all scope 3 categories, in
errors: an incorrect product code exclusion, for the thermal coal mining sector, for
order to be consistent with the target
an error in the hierarchy construct of a client, applicable years where the significance
scenario reference pathway and industry
and the incorrect inclusion of a non-thermal threshold was breached. The significance
practice.
coal project. Methodological changes were threshold was not breached for all other
also applied to align with the refinements to sectors, or for scope or boundary changes.
our basis of preparation in our reporting.
Re-baselines and restatements Previously Reported Restated Metrics Percentage Change
Sector Reporting metrics 2020 2022 2020 2022 2020 2022
Automotive On-balance sheet financed - tCOe/million vkm - 216.6 - 170.1 - (21) %
2
On-balance sheet financed - Mt COe - 5.5 - 4.1 - (25) %
2
Aviation On-balance sheet financed - tCOe/million rpk - 86.5 - 90.2 - 4 %
2
On-balance sheet financed - Mt COe - 2.7 - 3.5 - 30 %
2
Thermal coal mining On-balance sheet financed - Mt CO 2 e 4.0 - 4.7 - 18 % -
IFC and HSBC Asset Management partner to improve
sustainability in emerging markets
In 2024, International Finance Corporation (‘IFC’), a member of the World Bank Group, and
HSBC Asset Management (‘HSBC AM’) announced their intention to establish a specialised
fund vehicle targeting corporate bond issuers in emerging markets, with the aim of increasing
access to finance and supporting sustainable growth. The fund will be classified as Article 9
under the EU Sustainable Finance Disclosure Regulation.
This announcement furthers collaboration between IFC and HSBC AM, helping to mobilise
institutional investment in key areas, such as sustainable technologies and social impact in
emerging markets. IFC has committed to invest up to $100m in the fund, which will support
an existing HSBC AM global emerging market corporate sustainable bond strategy.
ESG
review

[PAGE 54]

ESG review | Environment
Financed emissions continued
Targets and progress
We have set out in the table below our We also set out our defined targets for the When assessing the changes from 2019 to
combined on-balance sheet financed and on-balance sheet financed emissions of the 2023, it is important to emphasise how
facilitated emissions targets for the oil and following sectors: cement; iron, steel and changes to exposure and market fluctuations
gas, and power and utilities sectors. aluminium; aviation; automotive; and thermal impact yearly updates as we make progress
coal mining. We disclose emissions in 2022 towards our interim targets. Movement from
In 2023, applying three-year average values
and 2023 and progress achieved in 2023 one year to the next may not reflect future
weighted at 33%, facilitated emissions for
versus baseline for each sector, except for trends for the financed emissions of our
the oil and gas sector total 6.5 Mt COe, and
2 the thermal coal mining sector, for which we portfolio.
for the power and utilities sector, they total
disclose financed emissions figures for 2021
346.6 tCOe/GWh. These values are then
2 and 2022. We are continuing to work on our
combined with the on-balance sheet numbers
2023 and 2024 figures and expect to report
for the relevant year to track progress to
on these in future disclosures. In 2021,
target. We set out the annual figures before
thermal coal mining financed emissions
the application of the three-year average in
totalled 1.38 Mt COe. In 2022, they were
the facilitated emissions table on page 56. 2
down by 69% against the re-baselined 2020
figure of 4.7 Mt COe.
2
2023 % change
Sector1 Baseline 2022 2023 vs. baseline 2030 target Unit2 Target scenario
Combined on-balance sheet financed and facilitated emissions at 33%, with three-year moving average
Oil and gas 42.6 in 2019 31.9 23.2 (46) % (34) % Mt COe IEA NZE 2021
2
Power and utilities 513.4 in 2019 396.8 349.0 (32) % 138.0 tCOe/GWh IEA NZE 2021
2
On-balance sheet financed emissions
Cement 0.64 in 2019 0.71 0.59 (8) % 0.46 tCOe/t cement IEA NZE 2021
2
Iron, steel and aluminium 1.8 in 2019 2.5 2.1 17 % 1.05 (1.43)3 tCOe/t metal IEA NZE 2021
2
Aviation 84.0 in 2019 90.2 79.6 (5) % 63.0 4 tCOe/million rpk IEA NZE 2021
2
Automotive 191.5 in 2019 170.1 152.4 (20) % 66.0 tCOe/million vkm IEA NZE 2021
2
Thermal coal mining 4.7 in 2020 1.44 N/A N/A (70)%5 Mt COe IEA NZE 2021
2
1 Our absolute and intensity emissions metrics and targets are measured based on the drawn exposures of the counterparties in scope for each sector. Emissions
intensity is a weighted average according to the portfolio weight of each investment, as a proportion of the total portfolio value. For oil and gas; and power and
utilities, the baseline, progress and target figures represent combined on-balance sheet financed and facilitated emissions. For cement; iron, steel and aluminium;
aviation; automotive; and thermal coal mining, the baseline, progress and target figures represent on-balance sheet financed emissions. For the aviation and
automotive sectors, the target figure is unchanged while the 2022 figure represents restated on-balance sheet financed emissions. For thermal coal mining, the
target is unchanged while the 2020 baseline figure has been re-baselined.
2 For the oil and gas sector, absolute emissions are measured in million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (‘Mt COe’); for the power and utilities sector, intensity
2
is measured in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per gigawatt hour (‘tCOe/GWh’); for the cement sector, intensity is measured in tonnes of carbon dioxide
2
equivalent per tonne of cement (‘tCOe/t cement’); for the iron, steel and aluminium sector, intensity is measured in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per tonne
2
of metal (‘tCOe/t metal’); for the aviation sector, intensity is measured in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per million revenue passenger kilometres (‘tCOe/
2 2
million rpk’); for the automotive sector, intensity is measured in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per million vehicle kilometres ('tCOe/million vkm’); and for the
2
thermal coal mining sector, absolute emissions are measured in million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (‘Mt COe’).
2
3 While the iron, steel and aluminium 2030 target is aligned with the IEA NZE 2021 scenario, we also reference the Mission Possible Partnership Technology
Moratorium scenario, whose 2030 reference range is shown in parentheses.
4 Our aviation unit includes passenger and cargo tonnes, converted into revenue passenger kilometre (‘rpk‘), to align with our target pathway. This is comparable to
revenue tonne kilometre ('rtk') using a 100kg per passenger conversion factor as we already include belly and dedicated cargo in our production figures. The
conversion factor changed from 95kg per passenger used in the baseline disclosure to align with industry practice.
5 The thermal coal mining scope differs from the other sectors. We include solely emissions from thermal coal production and coal power generation, rather than
the total emissions of a counterparty within a sector, to reflect the thermal coal mining absolute financed emissions reduction target.

[PAGE 55]

Financed emissions continued
We plan to report financed emissions and Consistent with the PCAF guidance on looking basis as we progress towards our
progress against our targets annually, and to financed emissions accounting, we only 2030 targets. In addition, for the intensity-
be transparent in our disclosures about the consider the outstanding drawn financing based sectors, the emissions intensity is
methodologies applied and any challenges or amount given this has a direct link to real sensitive to material clients and changes to
dependencies. However, financed emissions economy emissions. drawn balances year-on-year can therefore
figures may not be reconcilable or influence the trend.
A number of clients have material undrawn
comparable year-on-year in future, and
balances that, if drawn, could significantly We continue to engage with and support our
baselines and targets may require updates or
increase the financed emissions related to clients in their decarbonisation journey by
revisions as data, methodologies and
those clients. We expect to assess how to providing financing and advisory services.
reference scenarios develop.
manage these exposures on a forward-
Oil and gas In 2023, absolute combined on-balance sheet Oil and gas 2023 progress
For the oil and gas sector, our analysis financed and facilitated emissions in our Mt COe from baseline
2
included scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions, portfolio decreased by 46% to 23.2 million (46) %
including carbon dioxide and methane, for tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (‘Mt
upstream and integrated companies. Our COe’) relative to the 2019 baseline, and by
2
baseline and progress figures reflect 27% from 2022 to 2023. The reduction was
combined on-balance sheet financed and due to divestments and other strategic
facilitated emissions. decisions, and temporary factors such as low
loan drawdown levels, and subdued capital
We have set a target to reduce absolute
markets activity.
combined on-balance sheet financed and
facilitated emissions for our oil and gas A return to market conditions with clients
portfolio by 34% by 2030 relative to our 2019 increasing capital markets activity, or other
baseline. This is consistent with a global factors that could lead to clients drawing
1.5°C-aligned pathway, as defined by the IEA down existing loans, will lead to increased
NZE 2021 scenario. financed emissions in our portfolio. Based on
Dealogic data, capital markets activity for the
We show in the chart our progress to date
sector increased by more than 15% in 2024
against our 2030 target. We also indicate the
compared with 2023.
2030 figure derived from the updated IEA
NZE 2024 scenario, which suggests a 30%
reduction relative to the 2019 baseline.
e2OCtM
50
45
40
35
30
25
20
15
10
5
0
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2030
HSBC sector portfolio emissions
Existing HSBC sector target based on IEA NZE 2021
IEA NZE 2024
Power and utilities decarbonise mobility, buildings and industry.
Power and utilities 2023 progress
For the power and utilities sector, our Our target is consistent with a global 1.5°C- tCOe/GWh from baseline
2
analysis included scope 1 and 2 emissions for aligned pathway, as defined by the IEA NZE
(32) %
upstream power generation, and diversified 2021 scenario.
utilities power generation companies. We
We show in the chart our progress to date
focused on power generation companies
against our 2030 target. We also indicate the
because they control sector output, which
2030 figure of 194.6 tCOe/GWh derived
has the most material emissions impact in 2
from the updated IEA NZE 2024 scenario. the real economy. Our baseline and progress
figures reflect combined on-balance sheet In 2023, the combined on-balance sheet
financed and facilitated emissions.
financed and facilitated emissions intensity in
our portfolio decreased by 32% to 349.0
We target a combined on-balance sheet
tCOe/GWh relative to the 2019 baseline, and
financed and facilitated emissions intensity of 2
by 12% from 2022 to 2023. This reduction
138 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per
was driven by an increase in the financing of gigawatt hour (‘tCOe/GWh’) by 2030. We
2 renewable energy projects and companies,
have chosen an intensity-based target as
and a decrease in the financing of high electricity demand is expected to more than
emissions intensity clients.
double by 2050, due to both population
growth and electrification required to
hWG/e2OCt
700
600
500
400
300
200
100
0
2019 20202021 20222023 2030
HSBC sector portfolio emissions
Existing HSBC sector target based on IEA NZE 2021
IEA NZE 2024
ESG
review

[PAGE 56]

Financed emissions continued
Cement including clinker substitution, alternative fuel Cement 2023 progress
For the cement sector, our analysis included use such as bioenergy, and carbon capture tCOe/t cement from baseline
2
scope 1 and 2 emissions for midstream use and storage. Carbon capture use and (8) %
companies with clinker and cement storage is a nascent technology and is
manufacturing facilities. currently applied at around 45 facilities
worldwide with a capture capacity of roughly
We target an on-balance sheet financed 50 MtCO per year. This is short of IEA NZE
emissions intensity of 0.46 tonnes of carbon 2
scenarios, which lay out a pathway of around
dioxide equivalent per tonne of cement
1 Gt CO per year captured and stored by (‘tCOe/t cement’) by 2030, using 2019 as our 2
2 2030. Several cement sector customers are
baseline. Our target is consistent with a
making progress in carbon capture use and global 1.5°C-aligned pathway, as defined by
storage and are launching their first carbon
the IEA NZE 2021 scenario.
capture use and storage pilot projects.
We show in the chart our progress to date
The 2023 emissions intensity of our portfolio,
against our 2030 target. We also indicate the at 0.59 tCOe/t cement, was 8% lower than
2030 figure of 0.47 tCOe/t cement derived 2
2 the 2019 baseline. It was also down by 17%
from the updated IEA NZE 2024 scenario.
in 2023 from 2022. The decline in 2023 was
mainly attributable to improvements in the
While some emissions reductions can be
availability of emissions and production data
achieved through energy efficiency, we
across a number of emissions-intensive
believe that to significantly reduce fuel and
clients. Emissions intensity trends are highly
process emissions from cement
sensitive to material client exposures and
manufacturing, and to meet our targets,
changes to drawn balances year-on-year.
large-scale investments are required in new
production processes and technologies,
tnemec
t/e2OCt
0.8
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.1
0
2019 2020 2021 20222023 2030
HSBC sector portfolio emissions
Existing HSBC sector target based on IEA NZE 2021
IEA NZE 2024
Iron, steel and aluminium from the updated IEA NZE 2024 scenario, and
Iron, steel and aluminium 2023 progress
For the iron, steel and aluminium sector, we of 1.43 tCO2e/t metal from the MPP Tech tCOe/t metal from baseline
2
covered scope 1 and 2 for midstream iron, Moratorium scenario. The MPP Tech
17 %
steel and aluminium production in our Moratorium scenario confines investments to
analysis. We intend to address our coverage near zero emissions technologies from 2030
of aluminium in future disclosures due to the onwards, and assumes no assets are
low materiality in our portfolio, as well as prematurely retired. It projects a slower
volatility caused by the greater emissions transition than IEA NZE scenarios in the near
intensity of aluminium production, compared term due to the use of different assumptions
to iron and steel. for steel production, steelmaking technology
mix, steel emissions intensity, and use of
We target an on-balance sheet financed
hydrogen in steelmaking.
emissions intensity of 1.05 tonnes of carbon
dioxide equivalent per tonne of metal (‘tCOe/ The emissions intensity of our portfolio in
2
t metal’) by 2030, using 2019 as our baseline. 2023 rose by 17% to 2.1 tCOe/t metal
2
Our target is consistent with a global 1.5°C- against our 2019 baseline, due to aluminium
aligned pathway for iron and steel, as defined sector exposures impacting the overall
by the IEA NZE 2021 scenario. Meeting the sector’s emissions intensity in 2023, and a
2030 target will be technologically challenging low baseline figure resulting from a higher
as this is a particularly hard-to-abate sector. mix of low emissions-intensive steel clients.
Emissions intensity dropped by 16% in 2023
We show in the chart our progress to date
versus 2022 due to the reduced exposure to
against our 2030 target. We also indicate the
aluminium clients, and a larger mix of low
2030 figure of 1.29 tCO2e/t metal derived
emissions-intensive clients.
latem
t/e2OCt
ESG review | Environment
3
2.5
2
1.5
1
0.5
0
2019 2020 2021 20222023 2030
HSBC sector portfolio emissions
Existing HSBC sector target based on IEA NZE 2021
IEA NZE 2024
Mission Possible Partnership (‘MPP’) Tech Moratorium

[PAGE 57]

Financed emissions continued
Aviation reduce emissions. The adoption of
Aviation 2023 progress
For the aviation sector, we included sustainable aviation fuel is in its infancy, tCOe/million rpk from baseline
2
passenger airlines’ scope 1 and aircraft currently accounting for an estimated 0.3% of
(5) %
lessors‘ scope 3 downstream emissions. We global jet fuel production. Sustainable aviation
excluded military and dedicated cargo flights fuel use needs to increase to 15% by 2030 to
as the emissions intensity of such cargo be in line with the IEA NZE 2021. This
flights is different to that of passenger requires a significant ramp-up of investment
airlines. This approach is in line with industry in production capacity and supportive policies,
practice to ensure consistency of financed such as fuel taxes and low carbon fuel
emissions measurement and target setting. standards.
We target an on-balance sheet financed The industry is also adopting the unit of
emissions intensity of 63 tonnes of carbon revenue tonne kilometre (‘rtk’) to take into
dioxide equivalent per million revenue account the transport of cargo for airlines in-
passenger kilometres (‘tCOe/million rpk’) by scope of the target. We plan to consider this
2
2030, using 2019 as our baseline. Our target unit change to rtk in future disclosures to
is consistent with a global 1.5°C-aligned better reflect the industry standard. We
pathway, as defined by the IEA NZE 2021 already include passenger and cargo tonnes
scenario. in our production figures.
We show in the chart our progress to date In 2023, the emissions intensity of our
against our 2030 target. We also indicate the portfolio fell by 5% to 79.6 tCOe/million rpk
2
2030 figure of 70.3 tCOe/million rpk derived relative to the 2019 baseline and was down
2
from the updated IEA NZE 2024 scenario. by 12% from the 2022 restated emissions
intensity. This decline was largely driven by
To meet our target, we believe the sector
improved data quality, higher exposure to
needs significant policy support, investments
lower emissions-intensive airlines compared
in alternative fuels, such as sustainable
with the sector average, and improved
aviation fuel, and new efficient aircraft to
operational efficiency with the return to pre-
Covid air traffic activity levels.
kpr
noillim/e2OCt
140
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
2019 20202021 20222023 2030
HSBC sector portfolio emissions
Existing HSBC sector target based on IEA NZE 2021
IEA NZE 2024
Automotive Meeting our target is heavily dependent on
Automotive 2023 progress
For the automotive sector, we looked at the share of new electric vehicle sales our tCOe/million vkm from baseline
2
scopes 1 and 2 for midstream manufacturing clients will achieve in 2030, including battery
(20) %
of vehicles, and scope 3 for tank-to-wheel and plug-in electric vehicles. BloombergNEF
exhaust pipe emissions for light-duty estimates that the electric vehicle share of
vehicles. We excluded heavy-duty vehicles sales in 2024 exceeded 20%, however this is
from our analysis as the target pathway below the 27% implied by the IEA NZE 2021
derived from the IEA excludes them, as they scenario based on HSBC analysis.
have a different decarbonisation pathway
Achieving our 2030 financed emissions target
relative to light-duty vehicles. This approach
will be challenging unless there is a strong
reflects a change from previous disclosures
acceleration in the share of electric vehicle
to only include tailpipe emissions instead of
sales. This will require large-scale
all scope 3 categories, in order to be
investments in new electric vehicle and
consistent with the target scenario reference
battery manufacturing plants, alongside
pathway and industry practice. We will
widespread charging infrastructure, and
consider including heavy-duty vehicle
government policies to support electric
manufacturers as well as heavy-duty vehicle
vehicles. production at a later stage of our analysis, as
data and methodologies develop.
The 2023 emissions intensity of our portfolio
dropped by 20% to 152.4 tCOe/million vkm We target an on-balance sheet financed 2
against our 2019 baseline, and by 10%
emissions intensity of 66 tonnes of carbon
versus the restated emissions intensity of our
dioxide equivalent per million vehicle
portfolio for 2022, which excludes non-
kilometres (‘tCOe/million vkm’) by 2030
2 tailpipe scope 3 emissions. The decline
using 2019 as our baseline. This is in line with
against baseline was driven by changes in our
a global 1.5°C-aligned pathway, as defined by
loan book resulting primarily from credit-led
the IEA NZE 2021 scenario, modified to
business decisions. From 2022 to 2023, the
match the share of new in-year vehicle sales
reduction was driven by a portfolio mix with
for light-duty vehicles.
lower emissions intensity clients, and lower
We show in the chart our progress to date exposures to carbon-intensive clients.
against our 2030 target. We also indicate the
2030 figure of 66.2 tCOe/million vkm derived
2
from the updated IEA NZE 2024 scenario,
which remains close to the 2030 target figure
of 66.0 under the 2021 scenario.
mkv
noillim/e2OCt
300
250
200
150
100
50
0
2019 20202021 20222023 2030
HSBC sector portfolio emissions
Existing HSBC sector target based on IEA NZE 2021
IEA NZE 2024
ESG
review

[PAGE 58]

Financed emissions continued
Thermal coal mining We show in the chart our progress to date
Thermal coal mining 2022 progress
For the thermal coal mining sector, our against our 2030 target. We also indicate the Mt COe from baseline
2
analysis focused on scope 1, 2 and 3 2030 figure of 2.7 Mt COe derived from the
2 (69) %
emissions in upstream companies, including updated IEA NZE 2024 scenario, which
those involved in extraction. When calculating suggests a 42% reduction relative to the re-
our financed emissions from thermal coal baselined 2020 figure.
mining, we focused on thermal coal
In 2021, absolute on-balance sheet financed extraction and processing companies, and
emissions decreased by 71% to 1.38 Mt diversified mining companies. The majority of
COe relative to the re-baselined 2020 figure.
our reported financed emissions relate to 2
In 2022, the absolute on-balance sheet
scope 3 emissions associated with coal
financed emissions of our portfolio decreased mining, representing financing provided to
by 69% to 1.44 Mt COe relative to the re-
large conglomerates that own diversified 2
baselined 2020 figure, and they rose by 4%
business interests including coal.
from 2021 to 2022. The reduction from the
We have set a target to reduce our absolute on- 2020 re-baselined figure was due to strategic
balance sheet financed emissions by 70% by decisions and temporary factors, such as low
2030, relative to the re-baselined 2020 figure of loan drawdown levels.
4.7 million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent
(‘Mt COe’). We used 2020 as a baseline to align A return to normal market conditions with
2
with the baseline used for our drawn balance clients drawing down existing loans will lead
exposure targets in our thermal coal phase-out to increased financed emissions in our
policy. Our target is consistent with a global portfolio.
1.5°C-aligned pathway, as defined by the IEA
NZE 2021 scenario.
e2OC
tM
ESG review | Environment
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
0
2019 2020 2021 2022 2030
HSBC sector portfolio emissions
Existing HSBC sector target based on IEA NZE 2021
IEA NZE 2024
On-balance sheet financed emissions
The table below summarises the results of our assessment of on-balance sheet financed emissions using 2022 and 2023 data. For thermal coal
mining, we disclosed in 2023 our 2020 baseline, which has been re-baselined as described on page 51, and we now present figures for 2021
and 2022. The PCAF data quality scores across most sectors improved in 2023 due to better data availability.
On-balance sheet financed emissions – wholesale credit lending and project finance1,2
PCAF data quality score3
Scope 1–2 Scope 3 Emissions
Sector Year (Mt CO 2 e) (Mt CO 2 e) intensity Scope 1 and 2 Scope 3
2022 1.3 16.2 N/A 3.2 3.2
Oil and gas
2023† 1.6 15.2 N/A 2.4 2.7
2022 7.6 N/A 401.7 3.3 N/A
Power and utilities
2023† 7.3 N/A 349.6 3.1 N/A
2022 4.5 N/A 0.71 2.9 N/A
Cement
2023† 6.3 N/A 0.59 2.3 N/A
2022 2.7 N/A 2.5 3.0 N/A
Iron, steel and aluminium
2023† 1.8 N/A 2.1 2.9 N/A
2022 3.3 0.15 90.2 3.2 2.4
Aviation
2023† 2.6 0.21 79.6 3.1 2.6
2022 0.11 4.0 170.1 2.7 3.4
Automotive
2023† 0.12 6.0 152.4 2.2 3.2
2021† 0.05 1.33 N/A 3.1 3.1
Thermal coal mining
2022† 0.07 1.37 N/A 3.1 3.1
Facilitated emissions
The table below summarises the results of our assessment of facilitated emissions using 2022 and 2023 data for the oil and gas, and the power
and utilities sectors.
Applying a 100% weighting, the oil and gas values for scope 1 to 3 emissions decreased from 15.2 Mt COe in 2022 to 9.0 Mt COe in 2023.
2 2
For the power and utilities sector, the values for scope 1 and 2 emissions rose from 3.8 Mt COe in 2022 to 4.6 Mt COe in 2023. For all 100%-
2 2
weighted facilitated values, please refer to the ESG Data Pack4.
Facilitated emissions – ECM, DCM and syndicated loans (33% weighting)
PCAF Data quality score3
Scope 1-2 Scope 3 Emissions
Sector Year4 (Mt COe) (Mt COe) intensity Scope 1 and 2 Scope 3
2 2
2022 0.36 4.7 N/A 3.3 3.3
Oil and gas
2023† 0.27 2.7 N/A 2.1 2.5
2022 1.2 N/A 358.7 2.9 N/A
Power and utilities
2023† 1.5 N/A 322.2 2.6 N/A
1 The total amount of short-term finance excluded for the thermal coal mining sector was 0.04% and 0.1% of total loans and advances to customers at 31 December 2021
and 31 December 2022 respectively; in 2023, for all other sectors, it was 0.7% of total loans and advances to customers at 31 December 2023.
2 The total loans and advances analysed for the thermal coal mining sector were 0.1% of total loans and advances to customers at 31 December 2021 and 31 December
2022, respectively. For all other sectors in 2023, the total loans and advances analysed were 2.7% of total loans and advances to customers at 31 December 2023. The
total loans and advances analysed for the purpose of the financed emissions calculation and reporting have not been adjusted for assets held for sale.
3 PCAF scores where 1 is high and 5 is low. This is a weighted average score based on financing for on-balance sheet financed emissions.
4 The total capital markets activity analysed applying a 100% weighting in 2023 was $10.4.bn, representing 3.3% of capital markets activity at 31 December 2023.
† Data is subject to independent third-party limited assurance in accordance with ISAE 3000 / ISAE 3410. For further details, see our Financed Emissions and Thermal
Coal Exposures Methodology and the independent third-party limited assurance report, which are available at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-
business/esg-reporting-centre.

[PAGE 59]

Financed emissions continued
Reducing emissions in our assets under management
HSBC Asset Management continues to work The Partnership for Carbon Accounting Our financed emissions metrics
towards its interim target1 of reducing scope 1 Financials (PCAF)2 recommends that financial As at 31 December 2023, the scope 1 and 2
and 2 financed emissions intensity by 58% institutions should, in line with the financed emissions intensity of HSBC Asset
between 2019 and 2030 for its in scope assets Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Value Management’s in scope assets stood at 69.8
under management (AUM), consisting of listed Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting tCO 2 e/M$ invested. The PCAF data quality
equities and corporate fixed income managed Standard requirement, establish a restatement score for our 31 December 2023 financed
within its major investment hubs. As of 31 policy to ensure consistency, comparability emissions intensity was 2.63.
December 2019, in scope assets amounted to and relevance of the reported greenhouse gas
$193.9bn, equating to 38% of global AUM. emissions data over time. HSBC Asset
Management has defined an internal financed
2019 re-baselined metrics emissions re-baseline and restatement
In 2024, we improved our methodology for
framework which adapts HSBC Group’s
calculating financed emissions intensity,
approach and defines relevant circumstances
including a revised mapping logic for issuers’
for HSBC Asset Management.
carbon intensity and EVIC (enterprise value
including cash) data. We have re-baselined our
2019 intensity figure due to an error in the data
mapping and it is now 124 tCOe/M$ invested
2
versus 131 tCOe/M$ invested reported in the
2
representing a decrease of 5.6%.
Reported metrics3 2019 2023 Unit
Scope 1 and 2 financed emissions intensity 124.0* 69.8 tCOe/M$ invested
2
AUM in scope 193.9 223.0 Billions $
PCAF Data Quality Score 2.63 2.63
*indicates that this metric has been re-baselined
1 Our targets remain subject to consultation with stakeholders including investors and fund boards on whose behalf we manage the assets. The 58% target is based
on assumptions for financial markets and other data, including the IEA Net Zero emissions by 2050 scenario and its underlying activity growth assumptions.
Carbon emissions intensity is measured as tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per million USD invested (tCOe/M$ invested), where emissions are scaled by
2
enterprise values including cash.
2 PCAF defines and develops greenhouse gas accounting standards for financial institutions. Its Global GHG Accounting and Reporting Standard for Financed
Emissions provides detailed methodological guidance to measure and disclose financed emissions. PCAF Standards are available at: https://
carbonaccountingfinancials.com/standard.
3 The re-baselined 2019 financed emissions intensity metric, and 2023 metrics were subject to independent third-party limited assurance in accordance with the
International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (Revised) ‘Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information’, and
with respect to the greenhouse emissions, in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3410 ‘Assurance Engagements on
Greenhouse Gas Statements’, issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. For the independent third-party’s limited assurance report, see
http://www.assetmanagement.hsbc.com/net-zero. The methodology used is available at: http://www.assetmanagement.hsbc.co.uk/-/media/files/attachments/
common/creating-a-new-climate-for-change/financed-emissions-disclosures-reporting-criteria.pdf.
Boosting the offshore wind industry in the UK
SeAH Wind Ltd is developing a new offshore wind technology manufacturing facility in
Teesside, North-East England. The factory is seeking to make a significant contribution to the
offshore wind industry and play an important role in addressing the growing global demand for
renewable energy.
Building on previous financing in 2023, we acted as mandated lead arranger and lender for a
$282m loan to SeAH Wind Ltd, with guarantees provided by UK Export Finance and the Korea
Trade Insurance Corporation, bringing total financing arranged by HSBC for the project to
$740m.
The proceeds will be used to support the ongoing construction and expansion of the new UK
manufacturing facility, helping the company grow through its extended product range for
offshore wind.
ESG
review

[PAGE 60]

ESG review | Environment
Net zero in our own operations TCFD
As described on page 15, we have revisited Our biggest challenge continues to be the In 2024 we incorporated an additional supply
our ambition to achieve net zero in our own limited availability of power purchase chain data source to complement data from
operations and supply chain by 2030 and are agreements and green tariffs in some of our CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project).
now focused on actions to cut emissions markets due to regulations. We continue to We continue to improve the measurement,
across these areas as part of our overall expand our network of experts in the quality and reporting of our supply chain
ambition to become net zero by 2050. renewables space to help us identify emissions data to generate insights to drive
opportunities globally. targeted reduction activities. We have
Reduce, replace and remove engaged with our 300 highest-emitting
Our guiding approach is, and will continue to Business travel suppliers to collaborate and identify
be to reduce, replace and remove emissions We have analysed our travel patterns to
emissions reduction opportunities based on
from our own operations and supply chain. identify areas where we can continue to
supplier maturity levels.
We plan to first focus on reducing carbon reduce emissions. For example, we have
emissions from consumption, and then introduced internal regional reduction targets In October 2024 we convened our first
replace remaining emissions with low-carbon and emission information at the point of Supply Chain Decarbonisation Day to facilitate
alternatives in line with the Paris Agreement. booking to encourage ownership and in-depth discussion and the development of
We will reduce emissions through the flexibility in decision making. joint action plans with some of our largest
purchase of 100% renewables and plan to suppliers in the technology, professional
add investments in sustainable aviation fuel Engaging with our supply chain services and real estate sectors, to help drive
Our supply chain contributes c.81% of our
to replace traditional fuel and reduce emissions reduction. In 2025, we will hold a
operational emissions and is the area in
emissions from our travel over time. similar event with different suppliers.
which we face the most significant
Altogether, across our operations, business
travel and supply chain, we expect to achieve decarbonisation challenge. When we set our Focus on natural resources
ambition in 2020, we did so without detailed We aim to be a responsible consumer of
a reduction of around 40% in emissions by
supply chain data. natural resources across our operations and
2030. In line with current guidance, we
supply chain. Wherever possible, through our
expect to only use carbon credits to remove
It has become clear that progress in reducing
procurement choices, design and
emissions when it is not possible to directly
emissions in our supply chain is proving
construction, or operations, we aim to protect
reduce or replace. However, recognising the
slower than we anticipated, mainly driven by
the environment and mitigate our impact on
importance of high quality carbon removals in
the slower pace of the transition across the
the depletion of natural resources. Our main
limiting global temperature rises, we have
real economy. Many suppliers are still in the
focus areas are waste, paper and sustainable
started to explore some high integrity carbon
early phase of their decarbonisation journey,
diets.
removal projects.
do not have sufficient insight into their own
emissions footprint, and have not set Our presence in environmentally sensitive
Our energy consumption
In 2024 we achieved a 30.5% reduction in decarbonisation targets. We have stepped up areas
targeted efforts to support decarbonisation Our global portfolio of buildings supports
our energy consumption compared with 2019
across our supply chain. customers and communities in areas that
(2023: 26.3%).This has been achieved
may be of high or very high water stress, and/
through optimising the use of our real estate
We aim to deepen collaboration with
or protected areas of biodiversity.
portfolio and carrying out a reduction in our
suppliers and increase our focus on those
office space and data centres. We continue
without public disclosures or emissions About 50% of our global offices, branches
to optimise our assets to ensure greater
reduction plans, supporting them through and data centres are located mainly in urban
efficiency and capitalise on new energy
education and incentivisation. We will build or city centre locations with large,
technologies. In 2024 we increased our
partnerships with larger suppliers to drive concentrated populations. These areas have
purchase of electricity from renewable
change in shared supply chains through been identified as being subject to high and
sources to 75.4% from 58.4% in 2023. This
scaled solutions, including through industry very high water stress, accounting for 49% of
included increasing our coverage of green
initiatives. our annual water consumption and about
tariffs in India and mainland China.
0.8% are in protected areas of biodiversity.
Renewable electricity can help unlock our
We have implemented consumption
emissions reduction potential, and we aim to
reduction measures, including installation of
achieve 100% renewable electricity across
water efficient taps, flow restrictors, auto-
our own operations by 2030.
taps and low or zero flush sanitary fittings.
Our environmental and sustainability management policies
Our buildings policy recognises that regulatory and environmental requirements vary across
geographies and may include environmental certification. The policy is supported by Corporate
Services procedures on environmental and sustainability management, seeking to ensure that
HSBC’s properties continually reduce their overall direct impact on the environment.
Detailed design considerations documented in our global engineering standards aim to reduce or
avoid depletion of critical resources, such as energy, water, land and raw materials. Suppliers are
required to comply with our Supplier Code of Conduct and have in place environmental policies
appropriate to the size and nature of their operations to reduce environmental impacts.

[PAGE 61]

Net zero in our own operations continued
2024 Emissions performance Energy and travel greenhouse gas emissions in tonnes CO2e3
We are making progress towards our updated
2050 net zero ambition. In 2024 we achieved a 2024 2023 2019 baseline
reduction in absolute operational greenhouse Scope 11 Ä 15,025 16,918 22,066
gas emissions (energy and business travel) of
66.1% from our 2019 baseline. Overall, Scope 2 (market-based)1 Ä 83,760 167,174 392,270
including supply chain emissions, we achieved a Scope 3 ~ 1,127,909 1,113,498 1,356,631
30.7% reduction against 2019 and 5.5% Category 1: Purchased goods and services1,2 Ä 866,873 880,494 1,033,972
compared with 2023. Category 2: Capital goods1,2 ~ 127,158 123,763 50,651
Emissions from our energy Category 6: Business travel1 ~ 133,878 109,241 272,008
We are currently on track to reduce our scope 1 Ä
Total 1,226,693 1,297,590 1,770,967
and 2 emissions by more than 90% by 2030
Ä
compared with our 2019 baseline. In 2024, we Included Scope 1 and 2 of UK 5,887 5,909 10,432
reduced these emissions (including energy and 1 Data in 2024 is subject to an independent third-party limited assurance in accordance with the
road fleet) to 98,785 tonnes CO2e, representing International Standard on Assurance engagements 3410 (Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse
a 76.2% reduction from our 2019 baseline and a Gas Statements). For further details, see GHG Reporting Guidance 2024 and third-party limited
46.3% reduction from 2023, helped by further assurance report at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-business/esg-reporting-centre. In
efficiency measures and portfolio reductions, and
2 Supply chain emissions are calculated using a combination of supplier emissions data and industry
an increase in renewable electricity procurement average emissions factors. A data quality score is applied to this calculation where 1 is high and 4 is
to 75.4%, up from 58.4% in 2023. low, based on the quality of emissions data. This is a weighted average score based on HSBC
supplier spend. Data quality scores can be found in the ESG Data Pack.
Emissions from travel 3 Data is based on the 12-month period to 30 September.
We reduced our emissions from scope 3 For further details of our methodologies, our independent third-party limited assurance reports and
business travel by 50.8% compared with relevant environment key facts, see our ESG Data Pack at www.hsbc.com/esg.
2019 with travel volumes remaining well Greenhouse gas emissions in tonnes CO2e Energy consumption in kWh in 000s
below pre-pandemic levels, although per FTE
emissions increased by 22.6% compared
with 2023 as travel behaviours normalise
2024 2023 2019 2024 2023 2019
gradually across the bank.
Scope 1, 2 and Ä Ä
Emissions from our supply chain 3 (Category 6) 1.1 1.3 2.9 Total 728,890 772,736 1,049,072
In 2024, we reduced our supply chain emissions Scope 1, 2 and
Ä Ä
by 8.4% against the restated 2019 baseline 3 (Category 1, 2
emissions, while compared with 2023, they and 6) 5.7 5.9 7.8 UK only 206,028 209,939 281,271
remained relatively stable, with a small reduction
Reporting Previously Percentage
of 1.0%. This was mainly driven by suppliers
Revisions metrics reported Restated metrics change
providing real estate-related services and financial
2019 2023 2019 2023 2019 2023
services, while emissions from suppliers of
technology-related goods and services have Category 1:
Purchased Goods and
increased, due to an increase in their investments
Services tonnes CO2e 829,635 859,256 1,033,972 880,494 25 % 2 %
(e.g. data centres), growth of new services (e.g.
cloud and AI) and increase in our spend. Category 2: Capital
Goods tonnes CO2e 37,617 121,783 50,651 123,763 35 % 2 %
In 2024 we also expanded the calculation scope Total Supply chain tonnes CO2e 867,252 981,039 1,084,623 1,004,257 25 % 2 %
by including two additional markets with third
party spend. We continue to widen our Energy consumption kWh in 000s 913,556 n/a 1,049,072 n/a 15 % n/a
reporting as more emissions and spend data are
added to the procurement scope. We apply reviewed and updated emission uplift counterparty emissions. For further details, see
rates to reflect uncertainty concerning the our GHG Reporting Guidance at
Emissions calculations approach
quality and coverage of emission measurement www.hsbc.com/esg
Our emissions report adheres to the
and estimation. This approach is consistent with
Greenhouse Gas (‘GHG’) Protocol, which In 2024 we conducted a materiality
both the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
incorporates the scope 2 market-based assessment on upstream scope 3 categories,
Change’s Good Practice Guidance and
emissions methodology. We report GHG and we have identified categories 1
Uncertainty Management in National
emissions associated with the energy used in (purchased goods and services), 2 (capital
Greenhouse Gas Inventories and our internal
our premises and employees’ business travel goods), and 6 (business travel) as material.
analysis.
and our supply chain in tonnes of CO2
equivalent. As a financial services organisation, Our calculation methodology for supply chain Our approach to re-baselines and
carbon dioxide is the main type of GHG emissions follows the spend-based method restatements
applicable to our operations, however, our under the GHG protocol; a combination of We re-baselined our 2019 and restated our 2023
current reporting also incorporates methane and supplier emissions data and industry averages. supply chain metrics in line with our emissions
nitrous oxide for completeness, although We source actual data via CDP, or direct re-baseline and restatement policy (see page
deemed immaterial. engagement with suppliers, and in the absence 51). As referenced above, in 2024, we made the
decision to amend the methodology. We also
of this we use estimations from a new data
Based on our operational control boundary, in identified an error in the mapping of industry
provider and then industry average carbon
2024 we collected data on energy use and averages. In addition, we have identified an
intensities from CDP to estimate supply chain
business travel for our operations in 34 countries error in our 2019 metric disclosed in our ARA
emissions.
and territories out of the 58 markets we operate 2023 for total energy consumption, which we
in, which accounted for approximately 97.7% of As more of our suppliers report their emissions, have now restated.
our full-time equivalent staff (‘FTEs’). To estimate we should be able to include more accurate data
the emissions of our operations in entities where and fewer industry averages in the calculation. We are conducting a review of our controls
we have operational control and a small We have applied a data quality score to the related to these items and aim to enhance
them accordingly.
presence, we scale up the emissions to 100%. sources of data we used to determine
ESG
review

[PAGE 62]

ESG review | Environment
Managing climate risk TCFD
Climate risk relates to the financial and non- Our material exposure to climate risk relates In the table below, we set out our duties to
financial impacts that may arise as a result of to wholesale and retail client financing activity our stakeholders in our four most material
climate change and the move to a net zero within our banking portfolio. We are also roles.
economy. We manage climate risk across all exposed to climate risk in relation to asset
our businesses and are incorporating climate ownership by our insurance business and For further details of our approach to climate
risk, see ‘ESG risk’ on page 133 and ‘Climate
considerations within our traditional risk types employee pension plans. Our clients are
risk’ on page 219.
in line with our Group-wide risk management exposed to climate-related investment risk in
framework. our asset management business.
Banking Employee pensions Asset management Insurance
We manage the climate risk in our Our pension plans have fiduciaries Climate risk management is a key We consider climate risk in the
banking portfolios through our risk to manage climate risk in line with feature of our investment decision management of our shareholder
appetite and policies for financial their duties towards members making and portfolio management and policyholder portfolio of
and non-financial risks. under local regulatory approach. assets.
requirements.
Climate risk
This enables us to identify We monitor climate risk exposure We also engage with companies ESG factors are incorporated into
opportunities to support our internally for our largest plans on topics related to climate investment analysis to evaluate
customers, while continuing to based on asset sector allocation change. climate risk impacts, as well as
meet stakeholder expectations. and carbon emissions data where the ongoing monitoring during the
available. investment cycle.
Banking As part of its stewardship activities, HSBC The Scheme reports its carbon emissions for
Our banking business is well positioned to Asset Management engages on climate its equity and corporate bond mandates in its
support our customers managing their own change issues with investee companies on a annual TCFD Report and will seek to widen
climate risk through financing. For our most priority list, as defined in its Stewardship the coverage of its assessment and reporting
material wholesale customers, we use our Plan. HSBC Asset Management makes over time. In line with the Trustee’s
transition engagement questionnaire to independent engagement decisions in the commitment to good stewardship, the
understand clients’ climate strategies and interests of its clients. Trustee engages its asset managers to
risks. We have set out a suite of policies to ensure that financially material ESG risks are
guide our management of climate risk. We Employee pensions explicitly considered in the investment
The Trustee of the HSBC Bank (UK) Pension
continue to develop our climate risk appetite process.
Scheme (‘the Scheme’), our largest plan with
and metrics to help manage climate
exposures in our wholesale and retail $34bn of assets under management, aims to Insurance
portfolios. We use climate scenario analysis achieve net zero greenhouse gas emissions In 2024, our Insurance business enhanced
to gain insights into the long-term effects of across its defined benefit and defined our stress testing modelling capability to
transition and physical risks across our contribution assets by 2050. To help achieve assess the solvency resilience of our
wholesale and retail portfolios (for further this, it is targeting an interim emissions Insurance entities under prescribed climate
details, see page 223). reduction of 50% by 2030, from 2019 levels, scenarios.
for its equity and corporate bond mandates.
Asset management This commitment was made in the context of For further details of the HSBC Asset
Management’s Stewardship Plan, see:
HSBC Asset Management recognises that wider efforts to manage the impact of climate
www.assetmanagement.hsbc.co.uk/en/
climate-related risks may impact the change on the Scheme’s investments and
institutional-investor/about-us/responsible-
operational and financial performance of the consequent impact on the financial investing/-/media/files/attachments/uk/policies/
investee companies. The impact of these interests of members. stewardship-plan-uk.pdf
risks will vary depending on characteristics For further details of the HSBC Bank (UK)
such as asset class, sector, business model Pension Scheme’s annual TCFD statements and
and geography. HSBC Asset Management UK Stewardship Code submission, see https://
futurefocus.staff.hsbc.co.uk/active-dc/
continues to integrate climate analysis into its
information-centre/search-documents
actively managed product offerings and seeks
to assess climate-related risks that could
impact investment performance, where
applicable and relevant.

[PAGE 63]

Sustainability risk policies TCFD
Our sustainability risk policies form part of our For clients in scope of our sustainability risk Our energy policy
broader risk management framework and are policies, where we identify activities that Our energy policy covers the broader energy
important mechanisms for managing risks, could cause material negative impacts, we system, including upstream oil and gas, fossil
including delivering our net zero ambition. expect clients to demonstrate that they are fuel power generation, hydrogen, renewables
identifying and mitigating risks responsibly and hydropower, nuclear, biomass and
These policies focus on mitigating
and will look to take required actions as waste-to-energy sectors.
reputational, credit, legal and other risks
outlined in our policies. This may, as
related to our customers’ environmental and The policy seeks to balance three objectives:
appropriate, include conducting enhanced
social impacts. driving down global greenhouse gas
due diligence or applying financing
emissions; enabling an orderly transition that
restrictions. Such instances may require
Our policies builds resilience in the long term; and
additional review and approval by our
Our sustainability risk policies comprise our
supporting a just and affordable transition,
sustainability risk specialists and risk
core net zero-aligned policies – thermal coal
recognising the local realities in all the
committees.
phase-out and energy – and our broader
communities we serve.
sustainability risk policies covering:
For further details of how we manage
agricultural commodities, forestry, mining and sustainability risk, as well as our full policies, see The energy policy was first published in
metals, and World Heritage Sites and www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and- December 2022, and is reviewed annually,
Ramsar-designated wetlands. We also apply responsible-business/managing-risk/ with the most recent update in February
the Equator Principles when financing sustainability-risk 2025.
relevant projects.
Governance and implementation For further details of our oil and gas, and power
These policies aim to provide clear signals to Our Group Risk and Compliance function has and utilities financed emissions targets, see the
our customers on our risk appetite for certain specialists who review and support 'Targets and progress’ section in ‘Financed
activities. implementation of our sustainability risk emissions on page 52.
policies. Our relationship managers are For further details of our energy policy, see
We continue to review policy implementation primarily responsible for assessing relevant www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-
responsible-business/managing-risk/
as we apply our sustainability risk policies in considerations under our risk management
sustainability-risk.
practice, and our operationalisation of such framework, including whether our clients may
policies continues to be enhanced. We take a be in scope of applicable sustainability risk
risk-based approach when identifying policies. They are supported by sustainability
transactions and clients to which our risk managers for management of risks as
sustainability risk policies apply and, where outlined in the policies. Where considered
relevant, when reporting on relevant appropriate, policy matters are escalated to
exposures, adopting approaches relevant governance committees.
proportionate to risk and materiality. This Oversight of the development and
helps to focus our efforts on areas where we implementation of policies is the
believe we can help drive meaningful change, responsibility of relevant governance
while taking into account experience from committees comprising senior members of
policy implementation over time. the Group Risk and Compliance function and
global businesses.
We regularly review our policies,
incorporating feedback and building on Biodiversity and natural capital-related
experience from policy implementation over policies
time. We have begun a review of our interim Our sustainability risk policies impose
financed emissions targets and associated restrictions on certain financing activities that
policies as part of the annual review of our may have material negative impacts on
net zero transition plan that we referenced in nature. Our forestry and agricultural
our 3Q24 earnings release in October. commodities policies focus specifically on the
upstream impacts of key agricultural
commodities including palm oil, timber, soy
and cattle. We also require palm oil
customers to obtain certification under the
Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil.
ESG
review

[PAGE 64]

ESG review | Environment
Sustainability risk policies continued
Our thermal coal phase-out policy Our basis of preparation for reporting on The chart below sets out our thermal coal
As set out in the thermal coal phase-out thermal coal financing drawn balance financing drawn balance exposure for the
policy, we are committed to phasing out the exposures is aligned with our thermal coal 2020 baseline as well as the exposure figures
financing of thermal coal-fired power and phase-out policy and applies a risk-based for 2021† and 2022†, which were $1bn
thermal coal mining in EU and OECD markets approach to reporting on relevant exposures. (rounded).
by 2030, and globally by 2040. This includes the use of globally recognised
We continue to work on our 2023 and 2024
third-party data sources to screen clients and
Our policy aims to support thermal coal numbers and expect to report on these in
applies materiality considerations to product
phase-out aligned to science-based future disclosures.
type, customer type and exposure type,
timeframes, recognising the different pace
which informs inclusion and exclusion
between advanced and emerging economies. Thermal Coal Financing drawn balance
requirements.
In turn, our policy supports progress towards
exposure1
our financed emissions targets for the power Specifically, for product types, short-term $bn
and utilities and thermal coal mining sectors. lending exposures are excluded from our
thermal coal financing exposures reporting, in 2
The policy was first published in December
line with our financed emissions
2021 and is reviewed annually, with the most
methodology. For customer types, exclusions
recent update in February 2025.
are applied for certain customer types such 1.5
as sovereigns and individuals. For exposure
For further details of our oil and gas, power and
types, a threshold of $15m for drawn
utilities financed emissions target, see the
‘Targets and progress’ section in ‘Financed balances is applied for thermal coal financing 1
emissions’ on page 52. exposures reporting.
For our thermal coal phase-out policy, see
www.hsbc.com/-/files/hsbc/our-approach/risk- We recognise that we provide financing to 0.5
and-responsibility/pdfs/240125-hsbc-thermal- groups of connected companies where the
coal-phase-out-policy.pdf. wider group has thermal coal exposures, and
this introduces additional complexities when 0
Thermal coal financing exposures estimating thermal coal exposure. In such 2020 2021 2022
We aim to reduce thermal coal financing cases, we consider the nature and the extent
drawn balance exposure from a 2020 of the connections and any restrictions on 1 The reduction is based on estimated underlying
baseline by at least 25% by 2025, and aim to use of financing proceeds to fund the thermal numbers aligned to our refined basis of
reduce it by 50% by 2030. coal activities. preparation.
† Data is subject to independent third-party limited
We continue to refine our basis of preparation assurance, in accordance with ISAE 3000/ISAE
and have made further enhancements in 3410. For further details, see our Financed
2024 while taking into account experience Emissions and Thermal Coal Exposures
Methodology and independent third-party limited
from policy implementation over time.
assurance report, which are available at
Applying our refined basis of preparation did www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-
responsible-business/esg-reporting-centre.
not have a material impact on the thermal
coal financing drawn balance exposure as of
For further details of our approach to financed
31 December 2020. emissions, see ’Our Approach to financed
emissions’ on page 48.
For further details of our Financed Emissions and
Thermal Coal Exposures Methodology, see
www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-
responsible-business/esg-reporting-centre.
Asset Management policy
HSBC Asset Management’s Energy and fired power and thermal coal mining For further details of the energy policy, see
Thermal Coal Policies have been developed in (collectively ‘thermal coal’) within the 2030/40 www.assetmanagement.hsbc.co.uk/-/media/
support of HSBC Group’s net zero ambition. timelines set out in the HSBC Thermal Coal files/attachments/common/energy-policy-en.pdf.
In its capacity as a discretionary investment Phase-Out Policy, and is intended to help For further details of the thermal coal policy, see
manager and under its Energy Policy, HSBC meet the dual objectives of phasing out www.assetmanagement.hsbc.co.uk/-/media/
Asset Management engages and assesses thermal coal within science-based files/attachments/common/coal-policy-en.pdf.
the transition plans of oil and gas, and power timeframes and of energy transition in more
and utilities issuers responsible for around 70 coal-reliant economies.
per cent of relevant emissions based upon all
The Energy Policy and Thermal Coal Policy
listed equity and corporate fixed income
complement one another and are reviewed at
managed within its major investment hubs.
least annually.
Its Thermal Coal Policy is developed in
support of the transition from thermal coal-

[PAGE 65]

Social
Building inclusion and resilience
We play an active role in opening up a world of opportunity for our customers,
colleagues and communities by connecting across our international networks
to help build a more inclusive and resilient society.
At a glance
Inclusion is key to opening up a world of Employee well-being is essential. We offer all easily. We also provide financial education for
opportunity. It involves a commitment to colleagues a wide range of resources that help our customers.
identifying and addressing barriers that may support their mental, physical and financial
stop people from accessing opportunities well-being so they can thrive in and out of Communities
In 2024, we updated our global philanthropy
because of who they are or where they are work. We are working to ensure that our
strategy to align with our ESG areas of focus –
from. offices, branches and digital spaces are
‘transition to net zero’ and ‘building inclusion
accessible.
Inclusion goes hand in hand with resilience. and resilience’, allowing us to work alongside
We aim to help people build the capabilities Customers the communities we operate within to help
they need to achieve their goals and to deal We are committed to helping our customers create change.
with the challenges they face, so we are access the financial services they need. They
We believe that fostering inclusion and
focused on delivering products, services and should not find it more difficult to access
building resilience helps us to create long-term
education that support our colleagues, finance because of their gender, ethnicity,
value and growth. By removing unnecessary
customers and communities. sexual orientation, neurodiversity or disability.
barriers and striving to be a fair and equitable
Our ambition is to create a welcoming,
Colleagues inclusive and accessible banking experience organisation, we can attract and retain the best
We believe that an inclusive, healthy and talent, support a wider customer base to
for all our customers.
rewarding workplace helps the whole Group achieve their goals and stimulate growth in our
succeed. We are focused on inclusive hiring so We build resilience by creating products and communities.
we can help ensure our colleagues – and services that simplify the banking experience,
particularly our leadership – are representative so customers can manage their wealth more
of the communities we serve.
In this section
Our commitment Our approach to inclusion We value diversity of thought and we are building an inclusive Page 64
to inclusion environment that reflects our customers and communities.
Fostering a diverse Page 65
environment
Fostering an inclusive Page 66
culture
Building a healthy Listening to our colleagues We run a Snapshot survey and report insights to our Group Operating Page 67
workplace Committee and the Board.
Being a great place to We aim to create a great workplace that will help in attracting, retaining and Page 68
work motivating our colleagues so they can deliver for our customers across
countries and territories.
Developing skills, Learning and skills We energise our colleagues for growth and build resilience by equipping Page 70
careers and development them with skills that they need today and preparing them to meet future
opportunities challenges.
Building customer Our approach to customer We aim to support financial well-being and remove barriers customers can Page 71
inclusion and inclusion and resilience face in accessing financial services.
resilience
Engaging with our Helping to build a more We focus on a number of priorities where we can make a difference to the Page 72
communities inclusive and resilient community and support sustainable growth.
society
ESG
review

[PAGE 66]

ESG review | Social
Our commitment to inclusion
Our approach to inclusion
Our purpose, ‘Opening up a world of We have identified specific Group-wide implementation of our global inclusion
opportunity’, explains why we exist as an priorities, which we track and monitor strategy to help ensure it remains locally
organisation and is the foundation of our progress against. Embracing our unique relevant and compliant with local laws.
global inclusion strategy. international footprint, we adapt
How we hold ourselves to account
We set strategic priorities We monitor progress We are transparent
Our strategic priorities are aligned to three We consistently track and measure We are transparent in sharing our data
public aspirational ambitions, which have performance against our priorities, utilising through external disclosures and we
been created to increase representation of our data capabilities to accurately monitor participate in benchmarking to measure
under-represented groups. In 2024, we progress through: our progress across the industry. In 2024,
continued to make progress against our we:
priorities by: – an inclusion dashboard, which monitors
progress against ambitions and is – ranked as a Top 75 employer in the UK
– achieving a 34.6% representation of reported to the Group Operating Social Mobility Index, improving 30
women in senior leadership roles, with Committee on a quarterly basis; and places to number 37;
an ambition of achieving 35% by 20251;
– review meetings between our Head of – ranked number 3 in the Stonewall
– attaining a 3.0% representation of Black Inclusion and each Group Operating Workplace Equality Index in the UK and
heritage colleagues in senior leadership Committee member to discuss progress maintained our Stonewall Gold standard;
in the UK and US combined, against an against aspirational ambitions and to and
ambition to achieve 3.4% by 20251; and support further progress.
– were awarded an Ambassador Status by
– increasing our Inclusion index as Carers UK.
measured in our Snapshot survey, to
78% against a 2024 target of 75%.
1 These numerical ambitions do not form part
of any US-based senior leader performance or
other objectives, or in other jurisdictions where
application of such should not apply under
local law.
We are evidence-led
Our priorities are informed by data, and we continue to enable our colleagues to self-identify across a range of data points that reflect their
personal identity, including ethnicity, sexual orientation, gender identity and ability.
We have enabled our colleagues to self-identify through our systems and our Snapshot survey, helping us to understand the diverse
composition of our global workforce.
Data availability enables us to embrace our international footprint, set locally-relevant priorities, support under-represented groups and
improve outcomes for our colleagues. In countries and territories where we are able to do so, we invite colleagues to share their data with
us. In 2024, we enabled 93% of our colleagues to disclose their ethnic background, with 67% of colleagues currently choosing to do so,
where this is legally permissible. In certain markets we invite colleagues to share additional characteristics with us, for example, disability or
socio-economic background.
For further details of our representation data, pay gap data, and actions, see www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/our-people/inclusion-at-hsbc and
the ESG Data Pack at www.hsbc.com/esg.
Parker Review UK disclosures
The history of our organisation is rooted in multiculturalism, and we remain focused on
embracing the different cultures and perspectives in the communities we serve while
enabling our customers to realise their global ambitions.
HSBC has supported the aims and objectives of the Parker Review and participated in annual
reporting since its formation in 2016.
We are committed to building a diverse workforce that reflects the communities we serve.
98.5% of our UK-based senior leadership population (including our Executive Committee and
their direct reports) have made self-disclosures regarding their ethnic heritage. A total of
17.1% of our senior leadership identify as coming from an ethnic minority background, broadly
aligned to the UK Census representation of 18%.
Our ambition is to ensure we remain reflective of UK Census data.

[PAGE 67]

Fostering a diverse environment
Women in senior leadership Black colleagues in senior leadership Gender representation
Increasing female representation in our senior Having a workforce that better reflects the
46.2%
leadership roles is one of our longest- communities we serve remains one of our
Holdings Board
standing strategic priorities. Since achieving strategic priorities. We have an ambition to
53.8%
our ambition of having 30% of senior increase our Black heritage senior leader
leadership positions held by women in 2020, representation in both the UK and US
78.9%
we set a new ambition to reach 35% by combined to 3.4% by 20251. In 2024 we Group
20251. We are on track to meet our 2025 maintained our position at 3.0%. Executives 21.1%
ambition, with 34.6% of senior leadership roles held by women at the end of 2024. Our Previously in 2020, we set our initial ethnicity C G o ro m u b p i ned 68.0%
ambition to double the number of Black
hiring practices are merit-based, and we seek Executives and
to ensure that every candidate, regardless of colleagues in senior leadership roles globally reports1 32.0%
by 20251. While this ambition was not tracked
their identity and background, has an equal
opportunity to demonstrate their skill and through our senior leadership performance Subsidiary 67.2%
potential. A total of 36.8% of all external
scorecards, it remained a strategic priority. directors2
Since 2020, we have increased the 32.8%
appointments into senior positions were
representation of our Black colleagues in
female, compared with 37.7% in 2023. 65.4%
senior leadership by 60%. We have seen a Senior
Women represented 38.0% of all promotions
number of changes to the global footprint of
leadership3
into senior leadership roles in 2024. 34.6%
our business since setting this ambition, and
In 2024, we relaunched our Accelerating despite our efforts so far, we are not making 62.3%
Middle
Women’s Leadership programme, developed the progress towards our ambition as quickly management3
in partnership with Cranfield Business School. as we would like and we are unlikely to 37.7%
The programme aims to strengthen our talent achieve our 2020 ambition by 2025.
pipeline by improving the representation of Junior 50.9%
women in senior leadership roles. It is We remain committed to focusing on the management3
development of our Black heritage 49.1%
designed to increase the visibility, career
colleagues. To address this, we use the
advocacy and network of our high-performing
Solaris programme as a development 48.8%
senior women, ultimately driving engagement All employees
initiative for our UK-based Black heritage
and enhancing leadership capability. In 2024, 51.2%
women. To date, 41 women have completed
we ran two pilot sessions held in the UK and
the programme, with 20% of participants
Hong Kong. We also launched a modified
version of the programme in a US pilot called securing a promotion. Male Female
Accelerating Enterprise Leaders, which also Our immersive development programme, ‘In 1 Combined Group Executives and direct reports
welcomes our male colleagues. includes HSBC Group Executives and their direct
Their Shoes’ was designed to bring to life the
reports (excluding administrative staff) as of 31
lived experiences of minority ethnic
Our Coaching Circles programme, which December 2024.
matches senior leaders with a small group of colleagues, including the challenges they 2 Directors (or equivalent) of subsidiary companies
colleagues to provide advice and support on face. In 2024, the programme was that are included in the Group’s consolidated
the development of leadership skills and recognised as an Outstanding Innovation at financial statements, excluding corporate directors.
the Learning Excellence Awards and was 3 In our leadership structure, we classify senior
network building, welcomed 4,052 women
highly commended in the Global Diversity leadership as those at global career band 3 and
and 4,103 men in 2024.
above; middle management as those at global
Initiative of the Year category at the British
career band 4; and junior management as those
Diversity Awards. Since its launch,12,707
at global career bands 5 and 6.
colleagues have completed the programme.
1 These numerical ambitions do not form part of
any US-based senior leader performance or
other objectives, or in other jurisdictions where
application of such should not apply under local
law.
Representation and pay gaps
We publish this data annually to ensure both colleagues with a disability in the UK. This now We are committed to paying colleagues fairly
transparency and a maintained focus on covers approximately 81% of our workforce. In regardless of their gender or ethnicity and have
addressing representation gaps within the 2024, our mean aggregate UK-wide gender pay processes to review that remuneration is free
organisation. Our gender and ethnicity pay gap gap was 40.6% compared with 43.2% in 2023, from bias. We also review our pay practices
reporting shows the difference in average pay and the ethnicity pay gap was 7.7% compared and undertake a pay equity review annually. If
between these two groups of people and the with 4.5% in 2023. Our UK gender pay gap is pay differences are identified that are not due
wider workforce, regardless of role or seniority. driven by several factors, including the shape of to objective, tangible reasons such as
our workforce, where there are more men than performance, skills or experience, we make
We have reported our UK gender
women in senior higher-paid roles and more adjustments.
representation and pay gap data since 2017 in
women than men in junior roles. While we are
line with reporting regulations, and have confident in our approach to pay equity, until For further details of our representation data, pay
voluntarily extended this to include the US, women and ethnic minority colleagues are gap data, and actions, see www.hsbc.com/who-
mainland China, Hong Kong, India, Mexico, proportionately represented across all areas we-are/our-people/inclusion-at-hsbc and the ESG
Singapore, Malaysia, and the UAE, alongside Data Pack at www.hsbc.com/esg.
and levels of the organisation we will continue
ethnicity data for the UK and US. In 2024, we
to see gaps in average pay.
have also extended this to include our
ESG
review

[PAGE 68]

ESG review | Social
Fostering an inclusive culture
Looking to the future and beyond our public Through sponsorship by our non-executive We have also expanded our workplace
commitments, we refreshed our global directors and our Group Operating adjustments programme through our provider
inclusion strategy to refocus our ambitions Committee, we bring together our senior Microlink, with services now available to over
against our strategic priorities, and set out our leaders and colleagues, bringing to life our 44,000 colleagues in India, a 17 percentage
approach to inclusion over the next three to values of ‘valuing difference’ and ‘succeeding point increase compared with 2023.
five years. We have established key together’.
principles that enable us to pivot towards Socio-economic diversity
In 2024, our ERGs led numerous initiatives To better support our colleagues from lower
building a more inclusive culture for all of our
and events including our Pride ERG for socio-economic backgrounds, we have
colleagues.
LGBTQ+ colleagues, who worked with our partnered with the London School of
Our colleagues’ personal sense of belonging Group Benefits team to expand Gender Economics and Progress Together to produce
and psychological safety are two key Dysphoria healthcare benefits in India. a comprehensive framework targeting socio-
measures captured as part of our Inclusion economic mobility in 2024.
Our Ability ERG, for our colleagues with a
Index in the annual Snapshot survey, which
disability, created a framework called ‘Know The ‘VOICE’ is designed to support
we monitor and review by various identities
me Better’, as a tool to help facilitate individuals, people managers, and
that comprise our global workforce. In 2024
conversations between colleagues and line organisations in retaining and advancing
we achieved a score of 78%, which is three
managers regarding a colleague’s disability. colleagues from lower socio-economic
percentage points ahead of our annual
backgrounds within the UK financial services
aspirational goal, and on par with the financial
Our focus on disability sector. The blueprint was developed through
services industry benchmark.
We are dedicated to creating an inclusive
extensive input from professionals across the
culture where all employees, including those
Analysis of our Inclusion index allows us to industry who come from a lower socio-
with disabilities can thrive. Our progress is
measure engagement levels of specific economic background, and they shared their
guided by our Global Disability Council,
colleague groups in greater detail, in particular experiences as part of our qualitative
sponsored by our HSBC UK Chief Executive
different personal identities, to better research. It highlights the biases that can
Officer, with senior leaders across the
understand the experiences of our colleagues impact retention and progression and offers
business meeting every two months.
globally. We found that scores from actionable, evidence-based strategies rooted
colleagues who identify as male and female in behavioural science to drive meaningful
We have launched the second cohort of our
were comparable, at 79% and 77% change.
Career Development Programme for our
respectively, remaining unchanged from
colleagues in middle and junior management
Through our Strive ERG for colleagues who
2023. From an ethnicity perspective, our
with a disability, in partnership with an
come from a lower socio-economic
Black heritage colleagues were two
external coaching provider. In 2024, we
background we have developed internal
percentage points below the Group-wide
launched an international pilot of the
mentoring programmes pairing junior and
average, while our Asian heritage colleagues’
programme in Hong Kong.
senior colleagues for coaching and
results were on a par with the overall score,
development sessions.
at 78%. From a sexual orientation In 2024, stories from our colleagues were
perspective, colleagues who identified as showcased globally as part of our Disability
We have enabled our colleagues in Singapore
LGB+ were one percentage point above the Confidence series. The series leveraged the
to share their socio-economic background.
Group-wide result. power of our colleagues sharing their
experiences, the support they receive, and In 2023, we entered the Social Mobility Index
Our employee resource groups
how this has helped them empower others to for the first time and gained recognition as a
Bringing together the shared identities,
do the same. top 75 employer. We continue to be
values and interests of our colleagues allows
recognised as a top 75 employer, improving
us to build an inclusive culture across the
our rank by 30 places to number 37 in 2024.
organisation and our volunteer-led employee
resource groups (’ERGs’) enable this. Our
ERGs provide insight on key societal issues.
Supporting our colleagues with caring responsibilities
We have found that many of our colleagues are often involved in both their careers and
significant caring responsibilities outside work, and are finding managing both responsibilities
increasingly challenging. In our Snapshot survey nearly 16% of colleagues self-identified as
having caring responsibilities.
In 2024 we launched the Global Carers Charter, which comprises a series of tools, policies
and support available for colleagues with caring responsibilities. Following its launch in the UK,
HSBC’s Global Carers Charter was awarded Ambassador Status by Carers UK.

[PAGE 69]

Building a healthy workplace
Listening to our colleagues
We value difference at HSBC, and we do this 2023. Our inclusion index, a key measure of 77% in 2024, up by one percentage point
by seeking out different perspectives and building an inclusive culture at HSBC, from 2023. We recognise that our speak up
listening. Our colleagues succeed together by remained unchanged at 78%, against an culture requires continued focus to ensure
being connected across the organisation, and ambition of maintaining 75%. we create the right environment for our
they take responsibility by speaking up. people. Our Snapshot survey revealed an
We have found that 75% of colleagues have
These activities are core to our values and we increase in colleagues able to state their
said that working conditions enable them to
capture regular feedback from our colleagues opinion without fear of negative
be productive, which is up two percentage
to help improve HSBC and the employee consequences, with 73% of colleagues
points compared with 2023. Despite this,
experience. feeling able to do so, up by one percentage
62% of colleagues report that work
point from 2023.
How we listen processes allow them to work efficiently,
Our annual employee engagement survey is which is down three percentage points We strive to improve awareness and
called ‘Snapshot’ and runs every September. compared with 2023. This remains one of the education around poor behaviours and
It is an opportunity for all employees to share lowest scoring items across the Snapshot strengthen our understanding and response
feedback on what it is like to work at HSBC. survey, particularly across our senior to these issues across all levels of the
leadership population. There are a number of organisation. In 2024, to ensure continued
Our 2024 survey achieved a response rate of
initiatives underway to make it easier for high-quality investigations into conduct
88%, up from 85% in 2023, with more than
colleagues to work efficiently. concerns, we introduced six new investigator
182,000 colleagues choosing to share their
training modules aimed at the Human
views. This high level of participation enables We also run an annual Pay and Benefits
Resources investigator community.
us to share results confidentially across all survey, which in 2024 helped to evaluate
levels of the organisation. Insights from our changes to our performance approach, as Our colleagues continue to receive training on
Snapshot survey are shared with the Group well as capturing ongoing feedback about bullying, harassment, discrimination and
Operating Committee and the Board, and are colleague expectations on compensation and retaliation at least every other year in our
provided directly to more than 11,000 people development in support of our employer Global Mandatory Training curriculum and as
managers with 10 or more responses from value proposition. We complement these part of other learning resources, including in
their teams. We support teams to have good large surveys with continuous lifecycle People Manager training.
conversations about their feedback through feedback from new joiners, internal movers
We have mandatory procedures for handling
the provision of interactive dashboards, action and voluntary leavers.
and investigating employee concerns, which
planning tools and discussion guides.
We are committed to building on our high include those for bullying and harassment.
Our Employee Engagement Index, our key levels of engagement and feedback Cases are continually monitored from our
measure of how people feel about HSBC, has throughout 2025. speak-up channels, and data is reported to
increased to 80%, up three percentage points management committees to ensure there is
compared with 2023. This was the largest For further details of our Snapshot data, see the visibility at leadership level.
ESG Data Pack at www.hsbc.com/esg.
increase seen across the Snapshot indices,
In 2024 the bank received a total of 624
and puts us six points ahead of the global
Employee conduct and harassment
concerns raised relating to bullying and
financial services benchmark that we
We expect all our employees to treat each
harassment. Where the concerns were
measure against.
other with respect and dignity, and we do not
substantiated following an investigation,
tolerate or condone discrimination,
Key driver analysis shows engagement is appropriate action was taken, which included
harassment or bullying in any form, as
most influenced by a clear understanding of termination of services where appropriate. In
outlined in our Global Anti-Bullying and
HSBC’s strategic objectives, confidence in 2024, 26% of concerns raised were either
Harassment Code. This is supported by our
the future and our strategy, positivity towards partly or fully substantiated and 34 colleagues
Global Code of Conduct, which helps us to
career and development, and trust and were dismissed in relation to bullying,
maintain high standards across the Group.
confidence in leadership. harassment, discrimination or retaliation.
We encourage our colleagues to speak up
Following significant increases last year, the We are committed to addressing this type of
about poor behaviour or things that do not
career index remained stable at 71% and is behaviour and will continue to take action
seem right. At times, we know it can be
six points ahead of the global financial where we find that an employee has
difficult to raise concerns, so regular
services benchmark. The proportion of breached our values and high standards of
communication and tracking is important to
colleagues stating a preference to remain conduct.
us. We measure confidence to speak up via
with HSBC for five or more years increased
our Snapshot Speak Up Index, which is at
to 70%, up three percentage points from
Delivering accessible learning
We are committed to fostering an inclusive workplace for all colleagues, regardless of
technology or ability.
In 2024, our Global Mandatory Training received Gold at the Brandon Hall Awards for Best
Training Program for Global Accessibility Standards.
To uphold these standards we collaborate closely with our accessibility experts, ensuring our
digital learning aligns with the high benchmarks set for our customer-facing websites. Our
Global Mandatory Training assigned to all colleagues undergoes an external audit to identify
any gaps affecting the experience of colleagues, such as those with visual impairments or
those who are neurodiverse. We also conduct inclusive user testing to incorporate learner
feedback into the design, helping to ensure a seamless experience for everyone.
ESG
review

[PAGE 70]

ESG review | Social
Being a great place to work
To fulfil our purpose and drive our strategy, Recognising colleagues’ success Our ‘At Our Best’ recognition platform offers
we need the best people, performing at their We believe in recognising our colleagues’ employees the opportunity to recognise their
best. Focusing on opportunities for success and have a number of mechanisms peers for role model behaviours linked to our
colleagues, making them a part of something to help enable colleagues to be rewarded for values. In 2024, our colleagues recognised
bigger and being clear on what they can their work. one another over 1.5 million times, up three
expect when they deliver on our strategy, is percentage points from 2023. Managers are
In 2024, we introduced performance routines,
fundamental to delivering for our customers. also encouraged to recognise colleagues’
to encourage our colleagues to talk about
service anniversaries every five years up to
Our workforce proposition strengthens our their ambitious goals throughout the year.
30 years of service, and at 40 years. In 2024
ability to attract, retain and energise our This is complemented with improving the
over 28,000 anniversaries were celebrated.
colleagues and is driven by three key reward exchange of feedback, so colleagues know
principles of rewarding colleagues’ how they are doing and how they can Share plans are another way to empower
responsibly, recognising colleagues’ success improve. These activities are brought colleagues to participate in the Group’s
and supporting our colleagues to grow. together through performance check-in success. In 2024, we invited 194,000
conversations at the year-end, with a colleagues to participate in our share plans
Rewarding colleagues responsibly simplified approach to performance and 93% of colleagues globally now have
Our pay and benefits proposition aims to
assessments. access to a share plan.
reward colleagues responsibly, helping to
ensure financial security for all. We remain These changes were communicated to over Supporting our colleagues to grow
committed to providing a competitive total 215,000 colleagues in 59 markets at the To help our colleagues to grow personally and
compensation package with an appropriate beginning of the year. Our Pay and Benefits professionally, we are committed to
mix of fixed pay and variable pay. In our survey measures several factors, including supporting their mental, physical and financial
Snapshot survey, 52% of colleagues feel they our colleagues’ understanding of well-being, offering flexibility and helping
are paid fairly for what they do, the sentiment performance routines, with 76% reporting a colleagues develop new skills.
remaining unchanged from 2023. ‘good understanding’ of how to practice
We use colleague feedback, benchmarking
them. In our Snapshot survey, 87% of
Following our accreditation as a global living from industry experts and we work with
colleagues reported that they had a clear
wage employer in 2024 we have continued to external partners across business, civil
understanding of what is expected of them
work with the Fair Wage Network, which society and academia. As a founding member
and 94% of colleagues said they have had at
provides an independent source of wage of the World Wellbeing Movement, we are
least one performance check-in conversation
levels. HSBC has achieved accreditation as a working with the associated Wellbeing
with their manager.
global living wage employer in 2025 in Research Centre at the University of Oxford
respect of the next two years. A living wage Variable pay allows us to recognise the to shape our approach to well-being. In
should be sufficient to cover an adequate performance and behaviours of our Snapshot, a record 78% of our colleagues
standard of living given the cost of goods and colleagues. In 2024 we introduced ‘Target said, ‘my organisation cares about my well-
services in each country in which we operate. Variable Pay’ to 150,000 colleagues in 47 being’, up nine percentage points from 2023.
We will continue to review all wages globally markets.
We further detail our approach to supporting
against local living wage benchmarks.
We have supported managers in their our colleagues to grow on the following page.
For our UK suppliers that have staff working understanding of the changes, with nearly We further detail our approach to skills and
within the UK, we seek to encourage them to 18,000 people managers attending training. career development on page 70.
pay at least the living wage. Changes to our pay structure provide more
clarity and transparency on how we make pay
For further details of our approach to workforce decisions and how performance impacts
reward, see page 301.
variable pay, helping colleagues understand
how they contribute to the performance of
the organisation.
Our first ever global activity challenge
We launched our first ever global activity challenge designed to help colleagues increase their
activity levels and well-being over a four-week period. With over 70 activities to choose from,
we supported colleagues with a new global internal community group on our intranet, two
expert speaker events, tailored content given on the Virgin Pulse app and motivational videos
filmed by colleagues. During the challenge, colleagues collectively logged physical activity
equivalent to 478,000 miles, which is equivalent to 19 times around the equator. After the
challenge, two thirds of the participants surveyed responded positively to joining the next
challenge.
One in four global colleagues with the Virgin Pulse app joined the challenge, with Asia-Pacific
accounting for 77% of all participation.

[PAGE 71]

Being a great place to work continued
Flexible working Physical well-being
Supporting our
Flexible working remains one of the top The Snapshot survey also revealed that 72%
reasons colleagues say they would of colleagues rate their physical health as colleagues in the Middle
recommend HSBC to someone else, with positive, compared with 74% in 2023. In
74% of colleagues saying flexible working is 2024, we continued to make the Virgin Pulse East
the aspect of our well-being programme they app available to colleagues, supporting them
In the wake of regional conflicts we
value the most. In 2024, 85% of our to increase their physical activity. Over
made promotion and support of mental
colleagues practised some form of flexible 21,000 colleagues have now downloaded the
health a priority. We held regular on-site
working arrangement, with 75% of app, up 260% from 2023. More than 1,000 Critical Incident Support across our
colleagues working in a hybrid way. personal and team activity challenges were
MENAT region, covering Egypt, UAE,
run and nearly 5,000 health checks were
We acknowledged that not all our colleagues Kuwait, Türkiye and Qatar.
completed.
had the right balance between working at
Across the region, belief that HSBC
home or in the office. In 2024, we have found We have continued to provide access to
genuinely cares about its colleagues was
that a better balance has been achieved, with private medical insurance for 99% of
at 66%, up 12 percentage points from
colleagues attending the office between 2-3 permanent employees and telemedicine
2023. We also found that awareness of
days per week on average. This was achieved healthcare services in the majority of our
mental health support at HSBC was at
by our senior leadership reinforcing their countries and territories. In certain countries
74%, up six percentage points from
expectations on office attendance. and territories, we also provide on-site
2023.
medical centres that the majority of
To further support flexibility and work-life
colleagues can access. We have also To support broader well-being across the
balance we have improved family leave
increased the number of colleagues who region we increased paid maternity leave
policies. We now offer 94% of employees at
have access to company paid health to a consistent 18 weeks. Family friendly
least 18 weeks of parental leave on full pay
assessments. In 2024, eligibility for a enhancements were also made to the
for primary caregivers, and 74% of
personalised health assessment was medical plan with the introduction of
employees have at least two weeks of paid
extended to all UK employees. Health fertility treatment coverage and new
leave for secondary caregivers. We also
assessments are provided in 43 countries and coverage for Applied Behaviour Analysis
provide five fully paid days of carers leave and
we are working to extend availability in 2025. in Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar and the
of compassionate leave, to 67% and 79% of
UAE.
colleagues, respectively. Financial well-being
Financial challenges remain a concern for We also held on-site breast screening
Mental well-being many colleagues, caused by increases in the and flu immunisation appointments in
In 2024 we continued to retain number one
cost of living globally. In 2024, 62% of the UAE. Following increased demand
status in the CCLA Corporate Mental Health
colleagues said they felt positive about their for these services, more appointments
Benchmark for the third year running. While
financial health and 57% of colleagues said and longer hours have been made
we are pleased with the progress made in
they have at least three months of essential available.
2024, mental health did decline with 79% of
outgoings saved, both up one percentage
colleagues saying they have positive mental
point from 2023.
health, compared with 83% in 2023. This
decline aligns with broader societal trends, We launched a five-part financial well-being
Awards
with younger generations in particular series covering key career milestones. The
experiencing lower levels of mental health. series had over 4,000 attendees during the CCLA Global 100 Mental Health
live events, with 93% of participants saying Benchmark
We have continued to make the meditation
the events were useful or very useful. – Ranked number 1 global
app Headspace available to our colleagues
Recordings of the events have since been employer for the third
globally, with over 35,000 enrolled, and we
watched more than 15,000 times across 37 consecutive year
have extended access to family and friends.
countries. Since the launch of the series,
In 2024, we upgraded our Employee
65% of colleagues said they know where to
Assistance Programme in over 30 countries
find financial well-being support at HSBC, up
to support the mental health of colleagues
five percentage points from 2023.
and their families. We have lowered the age
threshold on paediatric counselling support, In our Pay and Benefits survey one in three
and in some countries this is now available colleagues said that they want more support
from age five years. More countries will aim with financial well-being. In 2025 we aim to
to enhance support for children in 2025. trial a new financial well-being platform with
5,000 colleagues in the UK and Asia to help
We have sought third-party assurances and
our colleagues improve their financial literacy,
benchmarking to ensure our approach
money skills and planning.
remains relevant and effective. In 2024, we
used the 2023 MindForward Alliance’s For further details of our Snapshot well-being
Thriving at Work Benchmark, for which we data see the ESG Data Pack at www.hsbc.com/
received a global score of 91 points, 14 points esg.
ahead of the global average.
In 2024, mental health awareness training
was completed by more than 227,000
colleagues as part of Global Mandatory
Training. Our voluntary mental health
education modules have been completed
over 37,000 times, with 74% being
managers. We have also expanded the global
reach of mental health champions in our
Mindfulness Network by nearly 27%.
ESG
review

[PAGE 72]

ESG review | Social
Developing skills, careers and opportunities
Learning and skills development
Employee development energises our Our Global Mandatory Training covers key
colleagues for growth and helps equip them principles and foundational concepts of AI Energising our
with the skills they need today while also usage and we have developed foundational
colleagues for growth
preparing them to meet future challenges. and intermediate pathways to raise
awareness of AI principles, ethics, risks and
Enabling future skills governance. We have also developed specific We aim to provide our colleagues with
We have adapted our skills development courses tailored for our senior leadership the opportunity to develop critical skills
platforms and learning resources, to help population that focus on understanding AI while creating a pipeline of talent to
prepare our workforce for future challenges and exploring its use cases for business and support our strategic ambitions. It is
and enable skills building at scale. In 2024, decision making. essential that we promote effective
we: leadership and foster an environment
Skilling the transition to net zero that inspires our colleagues to grow. In
– increased the number of active users and
Our Sustainability Academy continues to 2024, our focus has been on:
participation in learning programmes via our
support our net zero ambitions and strategy.
learning experience Degreed. This aims to As the Academy has evolved, we have – Our Digital Acceleration Programme,
address skills gaps through internal and increased our focus on building capabilities which aims to create dynamic working
external learning content and courses, beyond foundational skills, specifically methods and simplify our technology
enabling colleagues to share, collaborate targeting priority groups that support both our landscape. This will enable us to work
and learn individually or in groups through customers and our operations in the faster and smarter, enhancing our
structured learning pathways; transition to net zero. In 2024, our key focus ability to develop better products and
– unlocked over 250,000 hours of skills has been on: services for our customers while
development through our Talent embracing innovative technologies;
– providing on-demand learning tailored to
Marketplace. To date more than 46,000 – Our ‘CARE’ programme, which
the specific roles, regions, and client bases
colleagues have created a profile helping embodies the principles of being
of colleagues involved in supporting
them match their interest in developing connected, accountable, responsive
customers through the transition;
specific skills or career goals with on-the- and empathic. It outlines the
job projects and networking; – facilitating external certifications and behaviours that reflect these values,
– accelerated the use of digital badging to qualifications, as needed, to deepen guiding our colleagues in delivering
acknowledge skill-building achievements. colleagues’ expertise in areas such as exceptional service to our customers.
We have launched over 150 badges and Sustainability Climate Risk through The programme has also been
issued over 12,000 badging credentials providers like GARP and Fitch; integrated into our customer
associated with priority skills such as – delivering a three-month Sustainability experience objectives, with progress
sustainability, AI and data analytics; and Leadership Programme in collaboration tracked through our Customer
with Imperial College London and our own Centricity Index, which is included in
– enabled our colleagues to learn via a range Sustainability Centre of Excellence experts our 2024 Snapshot survey.
of channels, reflected in an increase of total
training hours by our colleagues to 6.2 for over 200 colleagues; and – The Managing Director Leadership
million hours. – offering net zero learning opportunities to Programme, which was expanded in
the Board and 100 of our most senior 2024. It combines immersive in-
Maintaining our risk management culture leaders. person sessions on leadership with
Our Risk Academy delivers and deploys
virtual deep dives on key issues and
comprehensive learning opportunities for all We have leveraged our internal experts from all-hands strategy sessions, alongside
employees, including foundational training in the Sustainability Centre of Excellence to an enterprise risk leaders programme
traditional areas of risk management, such as provide advanced skills training in key and a series focused on doing
financial crime risk, and specialised transition areas, such as power systems and business in key locations. To support
development for senior leaders and those in storage, carbon removal, transition in Asia- our leadership pipeline we have
high-risk roles. The Academy also addresses Pacific, steel and cement industries, road refreshed our development offering
issues like ESG risk, AI and cybersecurity. transport systems, hydrogen and agriculture. for the next layer of leaders to be
delivered in 2025; and
For senior leaders, we have introduced new
programmes centred on Enterprise – Our Emerging Talent proposition,
Leadership through a risk lens. These Training at HSBC supporting HSBC in a future-focused
programmes are designed to support HSBC’s 6.2 million way, supplying the organisation with
strategic priority of sustainable growth by diverse and capable talent pools to
equipping leaders with the skills needed to anticipate and address existing future
navigate an evolving risk environment. We Training hours by our colleagues in 2024. skill shortages.
launched and concluded a new Financial (2023: 5.3 million)
Crime masterclass series for our senior
leader population, focusing on the importance 29.6 hours
of risk management and protecting the bank
from financial crime.
Training hours per FTE in 2024.
Building responsible AI expertise
(2023: 23.9 hours)
As we continue to enhance our AI capabilities
across the organisation, our new AI Academy
helps to support advanced skills development
aligned with HSBC’s AI strategy. This was
launched in response to the growing global
interest in AI and focuses on fostering AI
literacy and promoting responsible AI use
throughout the bank.

[PAGE 73]

Building customer inclusion and resilience
Our approach to customer inclusion and resilience
We believe that financial services, when seen that over 10% of goals have already been launched the Accessibility Hub, a multi-award
accessible and fair, can reduce inequality and achieved showing how this capability is helping winning accessibility awareness e-learning
help more people access opportunities. We support customers to build financial resilience. content, promoting digital accessibility to the
play an active role in opening up a world of general public, attracting circa 150,000 views
Well+, our flagship health and wellness-based
opportunity for customers and communities, as of September 2024. Also since launch,
reward programme on our HSBC HK mobile
by supporting their financial well-being, and more than 1,000 individuals across 140
banking app had another successful year with
removing barriers to accessing financial companies globally have participated in our
over 267,000 new customers in this year alone.
services. specialised digital accessibility Training 1000
More than 400,000 customers are now
Programme.
Access to products and services engaged, earning points by taking part in
We provide innovative solutions to help activities aimed at improving their holistic Supporting customers extends beyond our
improve customer access to products and health covering physical, mental and financial digital channels and we recognise that not all
services. For those in need of additional well-being. disabilities are visible. We rolled out our
support due to social or financial Hidden Disabilities Sunflower Lanyard Scheme
vulnerabilities or for those customers who do Communities to two additional markets this year – Singapore
In the UK we continued to support the
not qualify for a standard account, the UK and and the UAE – expanding it beyond the UK,
development of children and young people's
Hong Kong offer a No-cost Account with no Hong Kong, the Channel Islands and Australia.
financial capability, including those with special
minimum balance and no account opening The lanyard indicates that an individual may
education needs, through our Money Heroes
fees, to help with basic banking needs. need a little more help, support or time.
Programme – winner of the 2024 Third Sector
In the UK, we continue to offer our Business Charity Partnership Award (supported In 2024 two UK branches, Loughborough and
groundbreaking ‘No Fixed Address’ service, by Young Enterprise). In addition, we launched Sheffield, received awards for their accessible
working in partnership with housing and a new partnership with Girlguiding UK in and inclusive branch design. We are proud to
homelessness charity Shelter UK, providing November 2024, introducing the Money Skills be recognised by the Financial Times Diversity
access to financial services to help rebuild lives – ‘I’m Money Confident’ badge. in Finance Awards, the Construction Industry
and increase financial resilience. Since its launch Council and the Business Disability Forum for
For schools, colleges and youth groups we
in November 2019, this service has supported our work to improve accessibility, equity and
offer the ‘Smart Money’ programme, where
over 7,000 individuals, with over 1,400 of these inclusion in UK financial services.
training is delivered by HSBC colleagues to
in 2024 alone.
help improve financial capability and We continue to introduce accessibility features
employability. In 2024, we trained over 1,000 and designs (e.g. a curved notch and braille
Making banking accessible
colleagues, and working with our dedicated dots) to our card products across the globe to
Number of no-cost accounts held for
Financial Education Team, over 280,000 support people with visual impairments,
customers, in the UK and Hong Kong, who do
children and young people were engaged in learning difficulties, and colour blindness. In
not qualify for a standard account or who
the programme across the UK. 2024, we introduced accessibility features in
might need additional support due to social or
India, Philippines and Indonesia resulting in a
financial vulnerability. In Hong Kong we launched a face-to-face
total of 20 markets where those features are
training programme for teenagers with special
now available.
2024 674,439 education needs on how to make healthy
financial choices and build essential financial For the second year HSBC sponsored and
2023 718,306 skills for day-to-day living. hosted the annual AbilityNet’s Techshare Pro
Conference, Europe's largest event for the
2022 716,957 Creating an inclusive banking experience accessibility and disability inclusion
We endeavour to ensure that our banking
community, at our Group Head Office in
The reduction in no-cost accounts between 2023 products and services are designed to be London. Over 1,600 individuals attended the
and 2024 is due to bulk closure of inactive accounts accessible for customers experiencing either
event (in person or online) globally.
in the UK. temporary or permanent challenges, such as
disability, impairment or a major life event. In Supporting women
Supporting financial knowledge and Hong Kong we introduced a simplified mobile UK CMB launched a Women’s Business
education banking app designed to improve digital Growth Initiative Programme to support
We continue to invest in financial education inclusion for seniors, offering a more women in scaling their businesses and
content and tools across different channels to accessible and intuitive user experience. The provide access to funding, making £250m
help customers, colleagues and communities app features an enhanced interface with easy- available for lending, education and
be confident users of financial services, for to-understand buttons, increased use of networking opportunities. The aim of the
example by offering programmes focused on visuals, and streamlined access to essential support is to help narrow the credit gap for
improving resilience and basic money banking services. As the first initiative of its women-led businesses, which is estimated to
management skills. kind among Hong Kong banks, the app has be valued at $1.7tn globally.
been successful in engaging over 663,000
Customers In Mexico and Uruguay, our Mujeres Al
unique users since its launch in October 2022.
Since 2020, we received over 8.8 million Mundo programme helps to address gender
unique visitors to our global digital financial We are committed to improving accessibility gaps by providing businesswomen access to
education content, which helps customers across our digital channels and continuously funding, education and networking. In 2024
expand their financial capabilities through our review our browser-based websites and we provided over $190m in sustainable
personal financial management tools. mobile banking services against the Web financing to support women-owned
Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.1 AA enterprises in both countries. We also won
HSBC UK further enhanced capabilities that
standards. We promote digital accessibility by the 2024 Financial Alliance for Women’s
help customers to establish healthy savings
offering educational resource. In 2024 we ‘Outstanding Contributor’ award for enabling
habits through the launch of ‘Savings Goals’.
full financial access for women and unlocking
Customers have used this mobile banking
huge value in the Female Economy.
feature, since launch in April 2024, to set up
over 125,000 goals, with ‘Rainy Day’ as one of
the most popular categories. We have also
ESG
review

[PAGE 74]

ESG review | Social
Engaging with our communities
Helping to build a more inclusive and resilient society
We have a long-standing commitment to We also work with our charity partners to Charitable giving in 2024 (%)
support the communities in which we help strengthen the resilience of
operate. We aim to empower people and communities where we operate. Initiatives
launched in 2024 included:
communities to develop the skills and
knowledge needed to thrive in the future.
– ‘Saving for Good’, in partnership with INJAZ
Through the global reach of our charitable Al Arab, which teaches financial literacy
partnerships we bring together diverse fundamentals to 2,386 low-income workers
people, ideas and perspectives that help us and the large migrant worker population in
open up opportunities and build a more the MENA region.
inclusive world. – A new financial literacy curriculum in Hong
Kong that aims to strengthen the financial
Building community and future skills
management knowledge of elderly learners
We work with charity partners to initiate
and provide a better understanding of
programmes that help people and Social, including Future Skills: 29%
communities respond to opportunities and fintech applications and awareness of Environment, including the Climate
online fraud. Solutions Partnership: 40%
challenges as global economies transition
Local Priorities: 21%
towards a low-carbon future. In 2024, these – We responded to disaster relief appeals to
Disaster relief and other giving: 10%
included: support efforts in Bangladesh, Central
Europe, Mexico, the Middle East, Spain,
– Continuing a partnership with the British Taiwan, Thailand, the USA and Vietnam.
Council in Brazil, Mexico, India, Indonesia Total cash giving towards charitable
and Vietnam, and in Australia, India and Community engagement and programmes
Malaysia with The King’s Trust Group, to volunteering $94.7m
We offer paid volunteering days, and
empower young, marginalised people with
encourage our people to offer their time,
the skills needed to excel in the green
skills and knowledge to causes within their
economy.
communities. In 2024, our colleagues gave
– In India, HSBC collaborated with two over 254,000 hours to community activities Hours volunteered during work time
charities to help enhance sustainability in during work hours. Examples of volunteering >254,000
the handloom and apparel sectors, efforts in 2024 included:
benefiting 10,000 weavers. Our initiatives
focused on adopting energy-efficient – around 260 employees supported
practices, reducing water pollution, Waterkeeper, a US-based environmental
promoting natural fibre products, and non-profit, with 700 hours volunteered
People projected to be reached through
increasing the use of natural dyes. across 16 events in the country; and
our social and future skills programme
– HSBC Continental Europe collaborated with – more than 200 employees acted as >928,000
Junior Achievement Europe to launch the mentors for marginalised youth in support
Climate Resilience Programme, which aims of the Strive and Rise Programme in Hong
to provide educational opportunities related Kong.
to innovations in climate resilience for
young people in France, Italy and Malta.
Resilient Community Environment Initiative helps to
build bio-diverse Beijing Palace Museum
Established in October 2023, the HSBC Philanthropy Foundation Beijing aims to build
inclusive and resilient communities by focusing on the development of children, support for
disabled elderly people, promoting employability and livelihoods, and building a resilient eco-
environment in communities.
In 2024, the Foundation’s ‘HSBC Resilient Community Environment Initiative’ was extended
to include the Palace Museum in Beijing’s Forbidden City. Altogether 2,243 square metres of
green space and a 118-square-metre pond in the Museum’s Cining Garden were renovated
and populated with diverse local species to form a healthy and resilient ecosystem. Visitors
to the Forbidden City have benefited from the enhanced scenery since the second half of
2024.

[PAGE 75]

Governance
Acting responsibly
We remain committed to high standards of governance. We work
alongside our regulators and recognise our contribution to building
healthy and sustainable societies.
At a glance
Our relationship feedback so we know where we need to We strive to meet our responsibilities to
We act on our responsibility to run our improve, and take steps to do this. Our society, including through being transparent
business in a way that upholds high customer satisfaction performance improved in our approach to paying taxes. We also seek
standards of corporate governance. in many markets in which we operate, to ensure we respect human rights in our
although we still have work to do to improve workplace and our supply chains, and
Customer experience is at the heart of how
our rank position against competitors. continually work to improve our compliance
we operate. It is imperative that we treat our
management capabilities.
customers well, that we listen, and that we We are committed to working with our
act to resolve complaints quickly and fairly. regulators to manage the safety of the For further details of our corporate governance,
We measure customer satisfaction through financial system, adhering to the spirit and see our corporate governance report on page
net promoter scores across each of our global the letter of the rules and regulations 236.
businesses, listen carefully to customer governing our industry.
In this section
Setting high How ESG is governed We expect that our approach to ESG governance is likely to continue to Page 74
standards of develop, in line with our evolving approach to ESG matters and
governance stakeholder expectations.
Human rights Our respect for human rights We have continued to develop our understanding of our salient human Page 75
rights issues and associated risk management.
Customer Customer satisfaction While we are positioned among the top three banks in 58% of our key Page 77
experience markets within WPB and CMB, we recognise the need to improve our
customer experience further to enhance our competitive ranking.
How we listen We aim to be open and transparent in how we track, record and manage Page 78
complaints.
Integrity, conduct Safeguarding the We have continued our efforts to combat financial crime and reduce its Page 80
and fairness financial system impact on our organisation, customers and the communities that we
serve.
Whistleblowing Our global whistleblowing channel, HSBC Confidential, allows our Page 80
colleagues and other stakeholders to raise concerns confidentially.
A responsible approach to We seek to pay our fair share of tax in all jurisdictions in which we Page 81
tax operate.
Conduct: Our product Our conduct approach guides us to do the right thing and to focus on the Page 82
responsibilities impact we have on our customers and the financial markets in which we
operate.
Our approach with We require suppliers to meet our third-party risk compliance standards Page 82
our suppliers and assess them to identify any financial stability concerns.
Safeguarding data Data privacy We are committed to protecting the data we process, in accordance with Page 83
the laws and regulations of the markets in which we operate.
Cybersecurity We invest in our business and technical controls to help prevent, detect Page 84
and mitigate cyber-threats.
ESG
review

[PAGE 76]

ESG review | Governance
Setting high standards of governance TCFD
How ESG is governed
The Board takes overall responsibility for ESG The Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer Risk Management Meeting and the Group
strategy, overseeing executive management and the chief risk officers of our PRA- Risk Committee, with scheduled updates
in developing the approach, execution and regulated businesses are the senior provided, as well as detailed reviews of
associated reporting. Progress against our managers responsible for climate financial material matters, such as climate-related
ESG ambitions is reviewed through Board risks under the UK Senior Managers Regime. stress-testing exercises.
discussion and review of key topics, such as Climate risks are considered in the Group
updates on sustainability infrastructure
finance and employee sentiment. The Board
is regularly provided with specific updates on
ESG matters, including the sustainability How HSBC’s climate
execution programme, human rights and strategy is cascaded
workforce engagement. Board members
Opportunities Risks
receive ESG-related training as part of their
induction and ongoing development, and
seek out further opportunities to build their Board level governance
skills and experience in this area. For further
details of Board members’ ESG skills and
experience, see page 237. For further details
Group Board Group Audit Committee Group Risk Committee
of their induction and training in 2024, see
page 250.
Specialist Board governance
In October 2024, we enhanced our ESG
governance with the establishment of a new
Sustainability Working Group (‘SWG’) of the Sustainability Working Group
HSBC Holdings Board, with an initial duration Provides guidance on the Group-wide medium- and longer-term sustainability strategy,
of 12 months. The SWG is comprised of five including our progress towards our net zero ambitions, taking into account key factors such
non-executive Directors, along with as risk appetite, commerciality, capability and data. The group will also oversee progress
against the strategy, including financing and supporting clients’ transitions. The group will
attendance by other executives. At the
provide guidance on target setting, policy review, financing and investing.
executive level, the governance activity was
streamlined with the removal of the Chair: Independent non-executive Director - Geraldine Buckingham
Sustainability Execution Committee, with its
activity managed within the project team. We
expect that our approach to ESG governance
is likely to continue to develop, in line with Management level governance
our evolving approach to ESG matters and
stakeholder expectations.
ESG Committee Group Risk Management Meeting
The diagram on the right provides an Has oversight of ESG strategy, policy, Oversees the enterprise-wide
material commitments and external management of all risks, including
illustration of our ESG governance process,
disclosure. Oversees and monitors updates relating to the Group’s
including how the Board’s strategy on climate
progress against ESG strategy, climate risk profile and risk appetite,
is cascaded and implemented throughout the policies, plans, targets, commitments top and emerging climate risks, and
organisation. It identifies examples of forums and execution processes. Reports to key climate initiatives.
that manage both climate-related the SWG and Board on progress on
opportunities and risks, along with their the commitments, deliverables and Chair: Group Chief Risk and
Compliance Officer
responsibilities and the responsible chair. The targets under the sustainability
execution programme.
structure of the process is similar for the
escalation of problems, with issues either Co-Chairs: Group CEO and Group
resolved in a given forum or raised to the Chief Sustainability Officer
appropriate level of governance with
appropriate scope and authority.
Given the wide-ranging remit of ESG matters, Regional, global business and group infrastructure
the governance activities are managed
Examples of ESG-related management governance
through a combination of specialist
The following governance bodies support management in its delivery of ESG activities.
governance infrastructure and regular
meetings and committees, where Sustainable Execution Group Reputational Risk Human Rights
appropriate. These include the Group Programme Committee Steering Committee
Oversees the global Provides recommendations Oversees the Group’s
Disclosure and Controls Committee and delivery of climate and advice on significant evolving approach to
Group Audit Committee, which provide strategy through 10 reputational risk matters human rights and
oversight for the scope and content of ESG modules. with impact across the provides enhanced
Group. governance.
disclosures, and the Group People Chair: Global Head of
Committee, which provides oversight support Sustainability Chair: Group Chief Risk Chair: Group Chief Risk
Transformation and Compliance Officer and Compliance Officer
for the Group’s approach to performance
management.
For some areas, such as climate where our
approach is more advanced, dedicated
governance activities exist to support the
wide range of activities.

[PAGE 77]

Human rights
Our respect for human rights
As set out in our Human Rights Statement, Our salient human rights issues
we recognise the role of business in Illustration of HSBC Group’s inherent human rights risks mapped to business activities.
respecting human rights. Our approach is
guided by the UN Guiding Principles on HSBC activities
Business and Human Rights (‘UNGPs’) and
Provider of products
the OECD Guidelines for Multinational and services
Enterprises on Responsible Business
Conduct. Personal Business
Inherent human rights risks Employer Buyer customers customers Investor
Our salient human rights issues
We continue to develop our understanding of Right to Freedom from forced labour u u u
our salient human rights issues. These are decent Just and favourable conditions of work u u u u
the human rights at risk of the most severe work Right to health and safety at work u u u u
negative impact through our business Right to equality and freedom from discrimination u u u u u
activities and relationships. Right to privacy u u u
An extensive review of our salient human Cultural and land rights u u u
rights issues conducted in 2022 identified five Right to dignity and justice u u u u u
human rights risks inherent to HSBC’s
business globally, and five types of activity
through which such risks might arise. These We continued to develop our in-house We regularly review our sustainability risk
are represented in the adjacent table. capability on human rights with the launch of policies and policy implementation as we
further online resources for all staff and apply our policies in practice.
In 2023, building on this assessment, we
bespoke human rights training for key
provided practical guidance and training, colleagues, including those managing For further details, see our sustainability risk
where relevant, to our colleagues across the policies at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-
relationships with suppliers and business
Group on how to identify and manage human responsible-business/managing-risk/
customers, and those with responsibility for
rights risk. sustainability-risk.
overseeing risk management processes.
In 2024, we focused on our approach to Financial crime controls
For further details of the actions taken to respect
human rights risk management relating to the Our financial crime risk framework also helps
the right to decent work, see our 2024 Annual
goods and services we buy from third parties Statement under the UK Modern Slavery Act at to mitigate the risk of being associated with
and in respect of our business customers. www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and- adverse human rights impacts, by helping to
We issued human rights due diligence good responsible-business/modern-slavery-act. identify and assess the financial crime risk
practice guidance tailored to procurement and For further details of the actions taken to respect associated with our customers, employees
corresponding high-level guidance for staff the right to equality and freedom from and third parties.
who manage our relationships with our discrimination, see ’Our approach to inclusion’
business customers. on page 64. For further details of how we fight financial
crime, see www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-
Managing risks to human rights Sustainability risk policies responsible-business/fighting-financial-crime.
In 2024, we continued the process of Some of our business customers operate in
adapting our risk management procedures to sectors in which the risk of adverse human Other principles
reflect what we learned from the work on rights impact is considered greater. Our HSBC’s Principles for the Ethical Use of Data
salient human rights issues and began sustainability risk policies consider human and Artificial Intelligence include how we
embedding the related guidance documents rights issues such as forced labour, harmful seek to respect the right to privacy while
described above. or exploitative child labour, workers’ rights making use of these technologies.
and land rights.
We developed a human rights due diligence For further details see www.hsbc.com/-/files/
operating procedure for procurement globally. Through our membership of international hsbc/our-approach/risk-and-responsibility/
The procedure describes the due diligence certification schemes, such as the Forestry pdfs/240715-hsbc-principles-for-the-ethical-use-
process undertaken to identify suppliers Stewardship Council, the Roundtable on of-data-and-ai.pdf?download=1.
where the risk of adverse human rights Sustainable Palm Oil and the Equator
impact is considered higher and the process Principles, we recognise standards aimed at
to be followed to review and mitigate the respecting human rights.
risk. We built on the human rights supplier
audit pilots undertaken in 2023 in our Asia-
Pacific and Latin America regions with an
expanded programme of human rights audits
in 11 countries across Asia-Pacific, Latin
America, the Middle East and North Africa.
ESG
review

[PAGE 78]

ESG review | Governance
Our respect for human rights continued
Supporting change In 2024, HSBC Asset Management joined the Supporting those impacted and those
We continued to participate in industry Investor Initiative on Human Rights Data potentially at risk
forums, including the Thun Group of Banks, (‘II-HRD’), a collaborative engagement We continued to expand our Survivor Bank
which is an informal group that seeks to initiative that aims to improve the depth and programme, which has now supported over
promote understanding of the UNGPs within breadth of corporate human rights data 3,500 (a more than 15% increase since last
the sector, and the UN Global Compact available to investors and the transparency of year) survivors of modern slavery and human
Human Rights Working Group. human rights assessment criteria. This trafficking in the UK.
initiative seeks to address the industry-wide
HSBC has been a member of the Mekong Our Wealth and Personal Banking team
challenges commonly cited, including lack of
Club since 2016. We are a participant in their continues to deliver training to raise
transparent ESG ratings methodologies by
financial services working group, and we use awareness of modern slavery, enabling
commercial data providers and insufficient
their informative typological toolkits, employees to spot signs of abuse and
inclusion of human rights data.
infographics, and other multimedia resources escalate their concerns through established
covering current and emerging issues. Our For HSBC Asset Management’s Stewardship channels. In addition, our customer-facing
compliance teams regularly collaborate and Plan, see: www.assetmanagement.hsbc.co.uk/ employees globally are trained to identify and
engage with the Mekong Club in designing en/institutional-investor/about-us/responsible- support vulnerable customers as part of their
investing/-/media/files/attachments/uk/policies/
Group-wide knowledge sharing and training induction training.
stewardship-plan-uk.pdf.
sessions.
For further details of our work to support
Investments vulnerable communities, see page 71.
HSBC Asset Management acknowledges the
important role that business plays in Effectiveness
respecting human rights. If mismanaged or The table below includes some indicative
left unaddressed, human rights violations metrics we use to measure year-on-year
may materialise as business risks, negatively improvement to our human rights processes.
impacting investee companies’ operations,
supply chain or brand. These may in turn
present risk both to client investments and
reputation.
Measuring effectiveness
HSBC Asset Management engages with
companies prioritised for purposeful Metric 2024 2023
engagement under its Stewardship Plan on Contracted suppliers who either confirmed adherence to the code of
core themes material to investee companies, conduct or provided their own alternative that was accepted by our 96.7% 95%
including human rights. Engagements may be Global Procurement function
on a one-on-one basis, or collaboratively with
Employees who have received training on one or more aspects of human
other investors. In 2024, it has developed rights 11,884 8,176
engagement guidelines, highlighting its
expectations of good practice for companies,
where human rights may be a material issue. For further inclusion metrics, see page 64 in this ESG review.
Further details can be found in its
Stewardship Plan. The Global Voting
Guidelines provide an overview of its
approach to exercising its shareholder rights
in respect of ESG issues, including human
rights.

[PAGE 79]

Customer experience
We remain committed to improving to help us understand our strengths and the six key markets across WPB and CMB1 in line
customers’ experiences. In 2024, we areas we need to focus on. We were ranked with 2023.
gathered feedback from over one million among the top three banks or improved our
customers across our three global businesses ranking against our competitors in 58% of our
Customer satisfaction
Listening to drive improvement How we fared After an improved rank position in 2023, our
We have continued to embed our feedback In WPB, we were ranked among the top overall performance in the UK has stabilised
system so we can better listen, learn and act three banks against our competitors in Hong in 2024. Even though we sit outside of the
on customer feedback. We use the net Kong and mainland China. In Hong Kong, we top 3 in business banking, we are still ranked
promoter score (‘NPS’) and customer remained first overall against our competitors, in the top 3 among mid-market enterprise and
satisfaction to provide a consistent measure and improved our NPS score. This was driven large corporates in the UK. We remain
of our performance. NPS is measured by by improved scores across all customer committed to improving our NPS
subtracting the percentage of ‘detractors’ segments. performance across markets, with action
from the percentage of ‘promoters’. plans developed centrally and locally.
Our NPS rank improved in the UK and
‘Detractors’ are customers who provide a
Singapore. This was largely driven by In GBM, we have one of the highest
score of 0 to 6, and ‘promoters’ are
improved scores among our affluent satisfaction scores against our international
customers who provide a score of 9 to 10 to
customers. In Mexico our rank remained competitors. We were ranked in the top three
the question: ‘On a scale on 0 to 10, how
stable, and in India our rank declined, largely banks globally, with high satisfaction scores
likely is it that you would recommend HSBC
driven by our personal banking customers. based on our digital capabilities.
to a friend or colleague’.
In our private bank, our global NPS increased
We run studies that allow us to benchmark
ourselves against other banks. We try to to 48 points, compared with 42 points in Number of markets in top three or
make it as easy as possible for customers to 2023. All the existing markets included in the improving rank1,2
programme increased their scores from 2023
give us feedback, leveraging our use of digital 2024
and we have included India and UAE for the
real-time surveys to capture insight. By
WPB 4 out of 6
first time this year.
sharing this and other feedback with our
CMB 3 out of 6
front-line teams, and allowing them to
In CMB, we were ranked among the top
respond directly to customers, we are
three banks against our competitors in three
improving how we address issues and realise 1 The six markets comprise: the UK, Hong Kong,
of our six key markets. We ranked first in Mexico, mainland China, India and Singapore.
opportunities.
Hong Kong and as a top three bank in Rank positions are provided using data gathered
Singapore and India. In mainland China, we through third-party research agencies.
We continue to run dedicated global forums 2 We benchmark our NPS against our key
ranked outside the top three but ranked first
to provide oversight of our retail and business competitors to create a rank position in each
among international banks. In Mexico, we
customers’ experiences and promote market. This table is based on the number of
continuous improvement. This helps ensure have dropped from 3rd to 4th position due to markets where we are in the top three or have an
we use feedback in all aspects of how we run improved competitor performance in improved rank from the previous year.
business banking.
our business, and prioritise initiatives that
matter most to our customers.
Acting on feedback
In 2024, we have continued to focus on leverage data to improve our engagements adoption of customer digital capabilities to
developing our products and services, and with customers and are investing in improve fulfilment turnaround times. We
enhancing our digital capabilities to improve technology to drive process efficiencies, have also increased the resilience of our
customer experience. reduce query volumes and drive automation. digital channels and further reduced customer
Our new Trade Solutions platform (‘HTS’) lets fraud risk. These actions are helping to build
Wealth and Personal Banking us quickly deploy new capabilities (like greater digital trust with our customers and
We continue to redesign our international
TradePay) across multiple markets. It helps thereby improving customer experience.
products and services to make it quicker and
provide a consistent user experience and
easier to bank internationally. This year we enables easy connectivity to other platform Global Banking and Markets
have improved the way our customers make We continued our efforts to support our
ecosystems.
international payments. Customers can send clients in their sustainability and transition
funds directly to mobile wallets from their In sustainability we continue to build an end- journey by maintaining our Top 5 book-runner
banking app, with customers now able to to-end customer journey through launching position globally in green, sustainable and
send international payments with just the new propositions that incentivise and reward social bonds, and by extending the
recipients’ name alongside their phone customers for improving their ESG sustainability-focused product and solutions
number or email address. performance, such as the HSBC Buildings range beyond the labelled products suite. We
Sustainability Assessment Tool in the UK and have refined our priority and core coverage
Commercial Banking Sustainability Improvement Loan. In our model, including piloting a range of priority
Global Payments Solutions (‘GPS’)
Customer Channels division, we have client squads to drive specific client goals.
implemented a new globally aligned client
deployed AI and personalisation solutions to We continue to invest in our coverage
service model focused on delivering an
improve proactive engagement and the enablement strategy, including thought
enhanced front-to-back client experience. We
speed of query resolution. We have increased leadership and transaction banking solutions.
ESG
review

[PAGE 80]

ESG review | Governance
How we listen
To improve how we serve our customers, we
must be open to feedback and acknowledge How we handle complaints
when things go wrong. We continue to adapt
at pace to provide support for customers Our principles Our actions
facing new challenges, new ways of working
Making it easy Customers can complain through the channel that best suits them. We provide a
and those that require enhanced care needs. for customers point of contact along with clear information on next steps and timescales.
to complain
We aim to be open and consistent in how we
track, record and manage complaints, Acknowledging All colleagues welcome complaints as opportunities and exercise empathy to
complaints acknowledge our customers’ issues. Complaints are escalated if they cannot be
although as we serve a wide range of
resolved at first point of contact.
customers – from personal banking and
wealth customers to large corporates, Keeping the We set clear expectations and keep customers informed throughout the complaint
institutions and governments – we tailor our customer up to resolution process through their preferred channel.
date
approach in each of our global businesses. As
the table on the right demonstrates, we have Ensuring fair We thoroughly investigate all complaints to address concerns and ensure the right
a consistent set of principles that enable us resolution outcome for our customers.
to remain customer-focused throughout the Providing We provide customers with information on their rights and the appeal process if
complaints process. available rights they are not satisfied with the outcome of the complaint.
Undertaking Complaint causes are analysed on a regular basis to identify and address any
For further details of complaints volumes by
root cause systemic issues and to inform process improvements.
geography, see our ESG Data Pack at analysis
www.hsbc.com/esg.
Wealth and Personal Banking
In 2024, we received approximately 887,000 In Mexico, there was a 5.3% fall in the
complaints from customers in eight priority volume of total complaints in 2024 compared WPB complaint volumes1
markets, and the ratio of complaints per 1,000 with 2023, with unrecognised debit card (per 1,000 customers per month)
customers per month in these markets charges down by 9% despite an increase in
decreased from 2.2 to 2.0. We had a reduction transaction volumes. This was achieved 2024 2023
in complaints in our top three markets (the UK, through targeted actions, including improving Total2 2.0 2.2
Hong Kong and Mexico), which comprise 86% fraud processes and the introduction of UK3 q 1.0 1.1
of complaints globally. enhancements to the way customers receive Hong Kong3 q 0.7 0.9
purchase authorisations.
In the UK, complaints fell 9%. During 2024, Mexico3 q 5.0 5.2
our two key priorities continued to be In our private bank, we received 647
complaints prevention, and improving the complaints, an increase of 140 compared
1 A complaint is any expression of dissatisfaction
quality of resolution of the complaints we with 2023. This was largely due to the
about WPB’s activities, products or services
received. We made good progress in both inclusion of complaint data for the private
where a response or resolution is explicitly, or
areas, driven by targeted intervention in banking operation in India, which received implicitly, expected.
priority areas and ongoing regular oversight. 128 complaints in 2024. Complaint data for 2 Priority markets in 2024 included: the UK, Hong
This has included identifying prominent this business was reported in WPB figures in Kong (excluding Hang Seng), Mexico, mainland
complaint themes – such as telephony 2023. Banking products and service issues China, India, UAE, Singapore and Australia,
customer experience, transaction disputes and represented the largest volume of complaints selected based on complaints volume, customer
base and strategic importance among other
international payment processing – and overall, a high proportion of which were
factors. The 2023 total has been revised from 2.3
allocating them to individual executives as attributable to issues with payment
to 2.2 due to a change in the composition of these
accountable ‘owners’ to remedy the root processing and credit cards. Overall, the eight priority markets.
cause. private bank resolved 646 complaints. 3 The UK, Hong Kong and Mexico make up 86%
of total complaints.
The decrease in complaints in Hong Kong was
primarily driven by improvements in
capabilities that make banking with HSBC
easier for customers. A deeper customer-
centric culture, regular reviews, root cause
analysis of customer feedback and greater
collaboration across business lines to address
emerging customer pain points, also
contributed to the fall in complaints.
Acting on feedback
In 2024, we continued to improve our capabilities and tools across the business to enhance the customer experience globally. By consistently
measuring customer experience, we actively listen, learn and take action based on what our customers share with us. Additionally, we introduced
a customer experience behavioural framework across the bank, aligned with HSBC’s core values. This framework supports our colleagues in
meeting minimum service standards and prioritising customer experience in their daily routines. These efforts enable us to identify opportunities
to continue to improve our customer experience and systematically track and measure our progress.

[PAGE 81]

How we listen continued
Commercial Banking
In 2024 we received 46,276 customer and Although we have seen a minor increase in
client complaints, an increase of 0.8% from complaint volumes, this reflects CMB complaint volumes
2023. Of the overall volume, 32,748 came improvements in the quality of our logging (000s)
from HSBC UK, 8,779 from Asia-Pacific and process and we have increased our 2024 2023
the remainder from the rest of our global understanding of the root cause of many Total 46.2 45.9
markets. complaints. In 2024, we enhanced training for UK1 q 32.7 33.8
The most common complaint related to our front-line colleagues to ensure they can Hong Kong1 p 7.7 6.5
accurately identify the differences between a
servicing and transactions, with the largest
complaint, query and feedback and upgraded
volume of complaints globally coming from our complaint reporting tools. For 2025, our 1 The UK and Hong Kong (excluding Hang Seng)
business banking customers, representing account for 87% of total complaints.
focus will be on addressing the root cause of
68.2% of our total complaints.
complaint trends, as well as improvements to
our systems, processes and customer advice.
Acting on feedback
In 2024, we have further invested in comprehensive training programmes for our staff to ensure they are equipped with the skills and
knowledge needed to manage complaints effectively. This includes training on active listening, empathy, identification and treatment of
customers in financial difficulty and conflict resolution. All of our front-line teams globally went through this training to ensure that conduct and
the customer are at the heart of our management of client feedback. We have implemented advanced complaint reporting tools that enable us
to capture customer feedback more accurately and efficiently. These tools allow us to identify and address issues promptly. Within our Business
Banking segment, we continue to work with front-line teams to identify and manage complaints better.
Global Banking and Markets
In 2024, we received 1,838 customer In Markets and Securities Services (‘MSS’)
complaints in Global Banking, an increase of complaints decreased by 13.6% to 306. The GBM complaint volumes1
18.4% from 2023. Of the overall complaint majority of complaints were operational in
2024 2023
volumes, 37.6% came from Europe and nature and resolved in a timely manner. Of
28.9% came from Asia-Pacific. The most the overall MSS complaints, 49% came from Total 2,144 1,906
common complaint, at 34.2% of total Europe and 33.9% from Asia-Pacific, our two Global
complaints, related to transactions. largest markets. Banking2 p 1,838 1,552
Global Markets
and Securities q
Services3 306 354
1 Globally, a complaint is any expression of
dissatisfaction, whether justified or not, relating to
the provision of, or failure to provide, a specific
product or service or service activity. Within the
UK, a complaint is any expression of
dissatisfaction – whether justified or not – about
our products, services or activities, which suggests
we have caused (or might cause) financial loss,
material distress or a material inconvenience.
2 Global Banking also includes Global Payments
Solutions (previously known as Global Liquidity
and Cash Management) and complaints relating
to payment operations.
3 Contains Global Research complaint volumes.
Acting on feedback
In 2024, our focus has been to increase the capture and quality of complaints received within GBM. Our focus has been on doing deep dives
into the quality of complaints received and delivering bespoke training on the complaint themes that we see. We have defined robust
feedback loops allowing us to learn continuously from customer experiences and embed these into our processes. We regularly review and
analyse complaint data to identify trends and implement improvements in our services. Although we have seen growth in complaint
volumes, we are seeing higher levels of compliant quality and better decisions to address them in the first instance.
ESG
review

[PAGE 82]

ESG review | Governance
Integrity, conduct and fairness
Safeguarding the financial system
We have continued our efforts to combat These new technologies should enhance our
financial crime and reduce its impact on our ability to respond effectively to unusual
organisation, customers and the communities activity and be more granular in our risk
that we serve. Financial crime includes fraud, assessments.
bribery and corruption, tax evasion, sanctions
and export control violations and evasion, Our anti-bribery and corruption policy
Our global financial crime policy requires that
money laundering, terrorist financing and
all activity must be: conducted without intent
proliferation financing.
to bribe or corrupt; reasonable and
We manage financial crime risk because it is transparent; considered to be neither lavish
the right thing to do to protect our customers, nor disproportionate to the professional
shareholders, staff, the communities in which relationship; appropriately documented with
we operate, as well as the integrity of the business rationale; and authorised at an
financial system on which we all rely. We have appropriate level of seniority. Our global
a financial crime risk management framework financial crime policy requires that we identify
that is applicable across all global businesses and mitigate the risk of our employees,
The scale of our work
and functions, and in all countries and territories customers and third parties committing
in which we operate. The financial crime risk bribery or corruption. Among other controls, Each month in 2024 we monitored
framework, which is overseen by the Board, is we use risk assessments, due diligence and approximately 900 million transactions
supported by our financial crime policy that is ongoing monitoring following a risk-based for signs of financial crime. We
designed to enable adherence to applicable approach, to identify and help mitigate the performed daily screening of
laws and regulations globally. Annual global risk that our customers are involved in, or use approximately 121 million customer
mandatory training is provided to all colleagues, HSBC’s products or services, to commit records for sanctions exposure. In 2024,
with additional targeted training tailored to bribery or corruption. In 2024, two former we filed over 113,000 suspicious activity
certain individuals. We carry out regular risk employees of an HSBC subsidiary in China reports to law enforcement and
assessments to identify where we need to were convicted of bribery-related offences regulatory authorities where we
respond to evolving financial crime threats, as and each received a fine and suspended identified potential financial crime.
well as to monitor and test our financial crime sentence. The HSBC subsidiary in China self-
risk management programme. reported this matter to the police and was not
99%
a subject of the police investigation or
We continue to invest in new technology; we
charges.
are enhancing our fraud monitoring capability
and our trade screening controls, and Total percentage of permanent and non-
investing in the application of machine permanent employees who received financial
learning to improve the accuracy and crime training, including on anti-bribery and
timeliness of our detection capabilities. corruption.
Whistleblowing
We want colleagues and stakeholders to We continue to actively promote our full For further details of the role of the Group Audit
have confidence in speaking up when they range of speak-up channels to colleagues to Committee in relation to whistleblowing,
observe unlawful or unethical behaviour. We help ensure their concerns are handled including updates received in 2024 on
offer a range of speak-up channels to listen to through the most effective route. In 2024, operational effectiveness, see page 267.
the concerns of individuals and have a zero 13% fewer concerns were raised through
tolerance policy for acts of retaliation. HSBC Confidential compared with 2023. Of HSBC Confidential concerns raised in
the concerns investigated through the HSBC 2024:
Listening through whistleblowing Confidential channel in 2024, 66% related to 1,527
channels individual behaviour and personal conduct,
Our global whistleblowing channel, HSBC
21% to security and fraud risks, 12% to
Confidential, is one of our speak-up channels,
compliance risks and less than 1% to other (2023: 1,746)
which allows colleagues and other
categories.
stakeholders to raise concerns confidentially
Substantiation rate of concerns
and, if preferred, anonymously (subject to The Group Audit Committee has oversight of
investigated through HSBC Confidential
local laws). In most of our markets, HSBC the Group’s whistleblowing arrangements, and
in 2024:
Confidential concerns are raised through an the Chair of the Group Audit Committee acts
35%
independent third party, offering 24/7 hotlines as HSBC’s Whistleblowers’ Champion with
and a web portal in multiple languages. We responsibility for ensuring and overseeing the
also provide and monitor an external email integrity, independence and effectiveness of
(2023: 41%)
address for concerns about accounting, the Group’s policies and procedures.
internal financial controls or auditing matters
Regulatory Compliance sets the
(accountingdisclosures@hsbc.com). Concerns
whistleblowing policy and procedures, and
are investigated proportionately and
provides the Group Audit Committee with
independently, with action taken where
periodic updates on their effectiveness.
appropriate. This can include disciplinary
Specialist teams and investigation functions
action, such as dismissal and adjustments to
own whistleblowing controls, with monitoring
variable pay and performance ratings, or
in place to determine control effectiveness.
operational actions including changes to
policies and procedures.

[PAGE 83]

A responsible approach to tax
We seek to pay our fair share of tax in all – We seek to ensure that our entities active Our tax contributions
jurisdictions in which we operate, and to in nil or low tax jurisdictions have clear The Group effective tax rate for the year of
minimise the likelihood of customers using business rationale for why they are based 22.6% was higher than in the previous year
our products and services to evade or in these locations and appropriate (2023: 19.1%). The effective tax rate for the
inappropriately avoid tax. We also abide by transparency over their activities. year increased by 4.8% due to the non-
international protocols that affect our deductible loss in respect of the sale of our
– We seek to have open and transparent
organisation. Our approach to tax and business in Argentina, and decreased by
relationships with all tax authorities. Given
governance processes is designed to achieve 3.6% due to the non-taxable gain on the
the size and complexity of our organisation,
these goals. disposal of HSBC Canada. Further details are which operates across 58 jurisdictions, a
provided on page 380.
Through adoption of the Group’s risk number of areas of differing interpretation
management framework, we seek to ensure or disputes with tax authorities exist at any Tax paid in 2024 is higher than in 2023 mainly
that we do not adopt inappropriately tax- point in time. We cooperate with the because the Hong Kong Inland Revenue
motivated transactions or products, and that relevant local tax authorities to mutually Department did not issue HSBC’s corporation
tax planning is scrutinised and supported by agree and resolve these in a timely manner. tax assessments for 2023 until January 2024,
genuine commercial activity. HSBC has no With respect to our customers’ taxes, we are at which time they were paid. The equivalent
appetite for using aggressive tax structures. guided by the following principles: assessments for 2024 were received and
paid in December 2024.
With respect to our own taxes, we are guided – We have made considerable investments
by the following principles: to support external tax transparency The UK bank levy charge for 2024 of $249m
initiatives and reduce the risk of banking was lower than the charge of $339m in 2023,
– We are committed to applying both the
services being used to facilitate customer as the charge for 2023 was increased by
letter and spirit of the law. This includes
tax evasion. Initiatives include the US adjustments arising upon filing prior year
adherence to a variety of measures arising
Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act, the returns.
from the OECD Base Erosion and Profit
OECD Standard for Automatic Exchange of
Shifting initiative including the ‘Pillar Two’ As highlighted below, in addition to paying
Financial Account Information (‘Common
global minimum tax rules that apply to the $9.2bn (2023: $6.8bn) of our own tax
Reporting Standard’), and the UK legislation
Group from 2024. These rules seek to liabilities during 2024, we collected taxes of
on the corporate criminal offence of failing
ensure that the Group pays tax at a $10.1bn (2023: $10.8bn) on behalf of
to prevent the facilitation of tax evasion.
minimum rate of 15% in each jurisdiction in governments around the world. A more
which it operates. We have identified 14 – We implement processes that aim to detailed geographical breakdown of the taxes
jurisdictions that may have an effective tax ensure that inappropriately tax-motivated paid in 2024 is provided in the ESG Data
rate below 15% in 2024. We continually products and services are not provided to Pack.
monitor the number of active subsidiaries our customers.
within each jurisdiction as part of our
ongoing entity rationalisation programme.
Taxes paid – by type of tax Taxes paid – by region Taxes collected – by region
Tax on profits $6,080m (2023: $3,685m) Europe $2,780m (2023: $2,945m) Europe $4,214m (2023: $4,714m)
Withholding taxes $667m (2023: $432m) Asia-Pacific $5,020m (2023: $2,488m) Asia-Pacific $3,223m (2023: $3,226m)
Employer taxes $1,003m (2023: $1,052m) Middle East, North Africa Middle East, North Africa
Bank levy $135m (2023: $57m) and Türkiye $421m (2023: $296m) and Türkiye $118m (2023: $77m)
Irrecoverable VAT $1,098m (2023: $1,298m) North America $291m (2023: $389m) North America $1,025m (2023: $1,119m)
Other duties and levies $229m1 (2023: $249m) Latin America $700m (2023: $655m) Latin America $1,483m (2023: $1,680m)
1 Other duties and levies includes property taxes of $76m (2023: $91m).
ESG
review

[PAGE 84]

ESG review | Governance
Conduct: Our product responsibilities
Our conduct approach guides us to do the Our approach includes: Financial promotion
right thing and to focus on the impact we Our policies help to ensure that in the sale of
– designing products to meet identified
have for our customers and the financial products and services, we use marketing and
customer needs;
markets in which we operate. It is embedded product materials that support customer
into the way we design, approve, market and – managing products through governance understanding and fair customer outcomes.
manage products and services, with a focus processes, helping to ensure they meet This includes providing information on
on five clear outcomes: customers’ needs and deliver a fair products and services that is fair, clear and
exchange of value; not misleading. We also have controls in
– We understand our customers’ needs.
place to help ensure our cross-border
– periodically reviewing products to help
– We provide products and services that offer marketing complies with relevant regulatory
ensure they remain relevant and perform in
a fair exchange of value. requirements.
line with expectations we have set; and
– We service customers’ ongoing needs and
– improving, or withdrawing from sale, products
put it right if we make a mistake.
which do not meet our customers’ needs or
Product governance
– We act with integrity in the financial no longer meet our high standards.
Our product management policy covers
markets we operate in.
Meeting our customers’ needs the entire lifecycle of the product. This
– We operate resiliently and securely to avoid Our policies and procedures set standards to helps ensure that our products meet our
harm to customers and markets. help ensure that we consider and meet requirements before we sell them and
customer needs. These include: allows continued risk-based oversight of
We train all our colleagues on our approach to
product performance against the
customer and market conduct, helping to – enabling customers to understand the key
intended customer outcomes.
ensure our conduct outcomes are part of features of products and services;
everything we do.
When we decide to withdraw a product
– enabling customers to make informed
from sale, we aim to consider the
Designing products and services decisions before purchasing a product or
implications for our existing customers
Our approach to product development is set service; and
and agree actions to help them achieve a
out in our policies and provides a clear basis
– ensuring processes are in place for the fair outcome where appropriate.
on which informed decisions can be made.
provision of advice to customers.
Our policies require that products must be fit-
for-purpose throughout their existence, They help us provide the right outcomes for
meeting regulatory requirements and customers, including those with enhanced
associated conduct outcomes. care needs. This enables us to support
customers who are more vulnerable to
external impacts.
Our approach with our suppliers
We maintain global standards and procedures – We have started developing a biodiversity Supplier code of conduct
for the onboarding and use of third-party strategy that aims to integrate biodiversity Our supplier code of conduct (‘the code’) was
suppliers. We require suppliers to meet our considerations into our procurement refreshed in 2024, setting out our ambitions
third-party risk compliance standards and practices and define a clear set of and areas of focus on the environment,
assess them to identify any financial stability requirements for our suppliers. diversity and human rights, and outlines the
concerns. minimum standards we expect of our
– Since its launch in 2023, the Supplier
suppliers on these issues. We continue to
Sustainable procurement Diversity Portal is now live in a number of formalise adherence to the code with clauses
Supporting and engaging with our supply jurisdictions. Further expansion is planned in our supplier contracts, which support the
chain is vital to the development of our for 2025 to reach a wider demographic of right to audit and act if a breach is discovered.
sustainable procurement processes. In 2024: diverse-owned suppliers (at least 51% At the end of 2024, 96.7% of approximately
owned, managed or controlled by a
10,200 contracted suppliers had either
– We continued gathering carbon emission historically and locally under-represented
confirmed adherence to the code or provided
data from our suppliers through CDP group). For further details, see
their own alternative that was accepted by
(formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project) and www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-
our Global Procurement function.
introduced a new data collection method to responsible-business/working-with-suppliers.
simplify and improve our supplier outreach For further details of the number of suppliers in
– To increase engagement with diverse-
for scope 3 data collection. each geographical region, see the ESG Data
owned suppliers, we introduced a Pack at www.hsbc.com/esg.
– We began implementing decarbonisation development programme. The programme
plans for our three highest emitting is designed to empower diverse-owned
procurement categories: technology; real suppliers to effectively engage with large
estate; and professional services. We corporations, including HSBC, and supports
engaged suppliers on their emissions our ambition to further diversify our supply
disclosure plans and carbon reduction chain, to represent the communities that we
targets. We outlined what we expect of our operate in.
suppliers on these aspects and explored
joint opportunities.
– We hosted a Supply Chain Decarbonisation
Day with senior managers at HSBC and
suppliers to facilitate collaboration and
discuss innovative decarbonisation solutions
with some of our largest suppliers.

[PAGE 85]

Safeguarding data
Data privacy
We are committed to protecting the data we As part of our three lines of defence model,
process, in accordance with the laws and our Global Internal Audit function provides
regulations of the markets in which we independent assurance as to whether our
operate. data privacy risk management approaches
and processes are designed and operating
Our approach rests on having the right talent,
effectively. In addition, we have established
technology, systems, controls, policies and
data privacy governance structures and
processes to ensure appropriate
continue to embed accountability across all
management of privacy risk. Our Group-wide
businesses and functions.
data risk policy and principles provide a
consistent global approach to managing data We continue to implement industry practices
privacy risk, and must be applied by all our for data privacy and security. Our privacy
global businesses and functions. Our privacy teams work closely with our data protection
principles are available at www.hsbc.com/ officers, industry bodies and research
who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-business/ institutions to drive the design,
managing-risk/operational-risk. implementation and monitoring of privacy
Data Privacy Day
solutions. We conduct regular reviews and
We conduct regular employee training and
privacy risk assessments and continue to In February 2024, we held a global online
awareness sessions on data privacy and
develop solutions to strengthen our data event for our colleagues to mark
security issues throughout the year. This
privacy controls. International Data Privacy Day. The event
includes mandatory training that is updated
was hosted by our Global Head of Data
regularly for all our global colleagues, with We have procedures to articulate the actions
Legal, in collaboration with the
additional training sessions where needed to needed to deal with data privacy
International Association of Privacy
keep up to speed with new developments. considerations. These include notifying
Professionals.
Where relevant, we encourage our data regulators, customers or other data subjects,
privacy employees to obtain external as required under applicable privacy laws and The discussion focused on key
accreditation. regulations, in the event of a reportable developments in the data privacy
incident occurring. landscape for 2024 and beyond, including
We provide transparency to our customers
the impact of digital entropy and rapidly
and stakeholders on how we collect, use and
Intellectual property rights practices evolving AI-related advancements. This
manage their personal data, and their
We have a Group intellectual property risk was followed by a Q&A with the
associated rights. Where relevant, we work
policy, supported by controls and guidance, to audience to encourage further dialogue.
with third parties to help ensure adequate
manage risk relating to intellectual property.
protections are provided, in line with our data
This is to help ensure that commercially and
risk policy and as required under applicable
strategically valuable intellectual property is
data privacy laws. We offer a broad range of
identified and protected appropriately,
channels in the markets where we operate,
including by applying to register trademarks
through which customers and stakeholders
and patents and enforcing our intellectual
can raise concerns about the privacy of their
property rights against unauthorised use by
data.
third parties. Our intellectual property
framework also helps us avoid infringement
Our dedicated privacy teams report to senior
of third-party intellectual property rights,
management on data privacy risks and
supporting our consistent and effective
issues, and provide oversight for global data
management of intellectual property risk in
privacy programmes. We review data privacy
line with our risk appetite.
regularly at multiple governance forums,
including at Board level, to help ensure there
is appropriate oversight by senior executives.
Data privacy laws and regulations continue to
evolve globally. We continually monitor the
regulatory environment to ensure we respond
appropriately to any changes.
Responsible AI
Artificial intelligence (‘AI’) and other emerging technologies provide the opportunity to process
and analyse data at a depth and breadth not previously possible. While these technologies
offer significant potential benefits for our customers, they also pose potential ethical risks for
the financial services industry and society as a whole. We have a set of principles to help
ensure we consider and address the ethical issues that could arise. HSBC’s Principles for the
Ethical Use of Data and Artificial Intelligence are available at www.hsbc.com/ai.
We continue to develop and enhance our approach to, and oversight of, AI, taking into
consideration the fast-evolving regulatory landscape, market developments and best practice.
ESG
review

[PAGE 86]

ESG review | Governance
Cybersecurity
The threat of a cyber incident remains a of the organisation. This includes but is not
concern for our organisation, as it does across limited to defined information security
the financial sector and other industries. As responsibilities for employees, contractors
cyber-threats continue to evolve, failure to and third parties, as well as standard
protect our operations may result in disruption procedures for cyber incident identification,
for our customers and our business, cause investigation, mitigation and reporting. We
financial loss or loss of sensitive data, and can operate a three lines of defence model,
have a negative impact on our customers’ and aligned to the enterprise risk management
our own reputation, among other risks. framework, to help oversight and challenge of
our cybersecurity capabilities and priorities.
We continue to monitor ongoing geopolitical
Within the first line of defence, risk owners
events and changes to the cyber-threat
within global business and functions are
landscape and take proactive measures with
accountable for identifying and managing
the aim of reducing any impact on our
cyber risk. They work with cybersecurity
customers.
control owners to apply risk treatment in line
Prevent, detect and mitigate with our risk appetite. Our controls are Boosting gender
designed to be executed in line with our
We invest in business and technical controls to
policies and are reviewed and challenged by representation in
help prevent, detect and mitigate cyber
our risk stewards representing the second
threats. Our cybersecurity controls follow a cybersecurity
line of defence. They are independently
’defence in depth’ approach, leveraging
multiple security layers, and recognising the assured by the Global Internal Audit function, To help address barriers to opportunity,
complexity of our environment. Our ability to the third line of defence. HSBC Cybersecurity has been working to
detect and respond to attacks through round- increase the representation of women in
The assessment and management of our
the-clock security operations centre emerging talent via a variety of initiatives
cybersecurity risk is led and coordinated by a
capabilities is intended to help reduce the across 2024. These include:
Global Chief Information Security Officer
impact of attacks.
(‘CISO’). Our Global CISO has extensive – Sponsoring the CyberFirst Girls
Our cyber intelligence and threat analysis team experience in financial services, security and Competition for the second
proactively collects and analyses internal and resilience as well as strategy, governance, consecutive year, aimed at inspiring
external cyber information to continuously risk management and regulatory compliance. girls interested in technology to pursue
evaluate threat levels for the most prevalent The Global CISO is supported by regional and a career in cybersecurity.
attack types and their potential outcomes. We business-level CISOs. In the event of – Providing cybersecurity work-
actively participate in the broader cyber incidents, the Global CISO and relevant shadowing opportunities to
intelligence community, including by sharing supporting CISOs are informed and are undergraduates who are part of the
technical expertise in investigations, alongside engaged in alignment with our cybersecurity UK-based Women in Technology
others in the financial services industry and incident response protocols. programme.
government agencies around the world. – Cybersecurity colleagues have hosted
Key performance indicators, control
a range of events with university
effectiveness and other matters related to
In 2024, we continued our programme of students in Poland, Mexico, mainland
cybersecurity, including significant cyber
continual improvement to further strengthen China, India and the UK.
incidents, are presented on a regular basis to
our cyber defences and enhance our
various management risk and control
cybersecurity capabilities to help reduce the
committees including to Board committees,
likelihood and impact of unauthorised access,
the Group Risk Management Meeting and We host an annual Cyber Awareness Month
security vulnerabilities being exploited, data
across global businesses, functions and for all colleagues, covering topics such as
leakage, third-party security exposure and
regions. This is done to help ensure ongoing online safety at home, social media safety,
advanced malware. One key area of focus is
awareness and management of our safe hybrid working, and cyber incidents and
the increasing use of AI, which could be used
cybersecurity position. response. Our dedicated cybersecurity
to facilitate sophisticated cyber-attacks. We
training and awareness team also provides a
are enhancing governance processes to
Our cybersecurity capabilities are periodically wide range of education and guidance to both
manage potential cybersecurity risks, along
assessed against standards issued by the customers and our colleagues about how to
with accelerating the potential this
National Institute of Standards and Technology spot and prevent online fraud.
technology brings.
and by independent third parties, and we
proactively collaborate with regulators to
We work with third parties, including suppliers,
participate in regular testing activities. In
financial infrastructure bodies and other non-
addition, HSBC engages external independent
traditional third parties, in an effort to help
third parties to support our penetration and
reduce the threat of cyber-attacks impacting
threat-led penetration testing.
our business services.
Cyber training and awareness
We have a third-party security risk
We understand the important role our people
management process in place to assess,
play in protecting against cybersecurity
identify and manage the risks associated with
threats. Our aim is to equip every colleague
cybersecurity threats with supplier and other
with the appropriate tools and behaviours they
third-party relationships. The process includes
need to keep our organisation and customers’
risk-based cybersecurity due diligence reviews
data safe. We provide cybersecurity training
that assess third parties’ cybersecurity
and awareness to all our people, ranging from
programmes against our standards and
our top executives to IT developers to front-
requirements.
line branch staff around the world, and we
Policy and governance deliver targeted training to staff that are
We have a robust suite of cybersecurity identified as having elevated cyber risk
policies, procedures, and key controls to help exposure.
with the effective oversight and management

[PAGE 87]

Financial
review
The financial review gives detailed reporting of our 86 Financial summary
financial performance at Group level as well as 98 Global businesses and legal entities
across the global businesses we reported on in 120 Reconciliation of alternative performance
measures
2024 and legal entities.
Hong Kong, 1980s. Serving Our Customers.
Financial
review

[PAGE 88]

Financial summary
Financial summary
We are targeting growth in target basis operating expenses of
Contents
approximately 3% in 2025 compared with 2024. Our target basis
operating expenses for 2025 excludes the direct cost impact of the
86 Key financial measures: basis of preparation business disposals in Canada and Argentina, notable items and the
86 Use of alternative performance measures impact of retranslating the prior year results of hyperinflationary
88 Critical estimates and judgements economies at constant currency.
88 Impact of hyperinflationary accounting
Our cost target includes the impact of simplification-related saves
89 Consolidated income statement associated with our announced reorganisation, see page 98, which
90 Income statement commentary aims to generate approximately $0.3bn of cost reductions in 2025. To
94 Consolidated balance sheet deliver these reductions, we plan to incur severance and other up-
front costs of $1.8bn over 2025 and 2026, which will be classified as
notable items.
Key financial measures: basis of
We do not reconcile our forward target basis operating expenses
preparation guidance to the reported operating expenses.
Dividend payout ratio target basis
Return on average tangible equity
excluding notable items We established a dividend payout ratio target basis of 50% for 2023
and 2024, and we continue to target a payout ratio target basis of
From 1 January 2024, we revised the adjustments made to our 50% for 2025. For the purposes of computing our dividend payout
adjusted RoTE measure. Prior to this, we adjusted RoTE for the ratio target basis, we exclude from earnings per share material
impact of strategic transactions and the impairment of our investment notable items and related impacts. Material notable items are
in Bank of Communications Co., Limited (‘BoCom‘), whereas from components of our income statement that management would
1 January 2024 we have excluded all notable items. This was consider as outside the normal course of business and generally non-
intended to improve alignment with the treatment of notable items in recurring in nature, which are excluded from our dividend payout ratio
our other income statement disclosures. The calculation for RoTE calculation and our earnings per share measure, along with related
excluding notable items, adjusts the ‘profit attributable to the ordinary impacts.
shareholders, excluding goodwill and other intangible assets
Material notable items are a subset of notable items for which
impairment‘ for the post-tax impact of notable items. It also adjusts
categorisation is dependent on the nature of each item in conjunction
the ‘average tangible equity‘ for the post-tax impact of notable items
with the financial impact on the Group’s income statement. They
in each period, which remain as adjusting items for all relevant
comprise the impacts of the sales of our banking business in Canada
periods within that calendar year. For a reconciliation from return on
and our retail banking operations in France, the gain following the
equity (‘RoE’) to RoTE excluding notable items, see page 122.
acquisition of SVB UK, the impacts of the sale of our business in
We do not reconcile our forward RoTE guidance to the equivalent Argentina and the impairment of BoCom. We also exclude HSBC
reported measure. Bank Canada‘s financial results from the 30 June 2022 net asset
reference date until completion, as the gain on sale was recognised
Banking net interest income through a combination of the consolidation of HSBC Bank Canada‘s
results in the Group‘s results since this date, and the remaining gain
Banking net interest income (‘banking NII’) adjusts our NII, primarily
on sale recognised at completion, inclusive of the recycling of related
for the impact of funding trading and fair value activities reported in
reserves and fair value gains on related hedges. Following the
interest expense. It represents the Group’s banking revenue that is
completion of the sale of our banking business in Canada, the Board
directly impacted by changes in interest rates.
approved a special dividend of $0.21 per share, which was paid in
June 2024, alongside the first interim dividend.
We use this measure to determine the deployment of our surplus
funding, and to help optimise our structural hedging and risk
For a reconciliation of basic earnings per share to basic earnings per
management actions. For more information on banking NII, see
share excluding material notable items and related impacts, see
page 91.
page 125. We do not reconcile our forward dividend payout ratio
target basis guidance to the reported dividend payout ratio.
Target basis operating expenses
Target basis operating expenses is computed by excluding the direct Use of alternative performance
cost impact of our France retail banking operations and Canada
banking business disposals from the 2023 baseline. It is measured on measures
a constant currency basis and excludes notable items and the impact
of retranslating the prior year results of hyperinflationary economies at
Our reported results are prepared in accordance with International
constant currency, which we consider to be outside of our control.
Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting
We consider target basis operating expenses to provide useful
Standards Board (‘IFRS Accounting Standards’), as detailed in the
information to investors by quantifying and excluding the notable
financial statements starting on page 341.
items that management considered when setting and assessing cost-
related targets. For a reconciliation from reported operating expenses
To measure our performance, we supplement our IFRS Accounting
to target basis operating expenses, see page 124.
Standards figures with non-IFRS Accounting Standards measures,
which constitute alternative performance measures under European
In 2024, we targeted operating expenses growth on a target basis of
Securities and Markets Authority guidance and non-GAAP financial
approximately 5% compared with 2023. This target reflected our
measures defined in and presented in accordance with US Securities
business plan for 2024, which included an increase in staff
and Exchange Commission rules and regulations. These measures
compensation, higher spend and investment in technology for growth
include those derived from our reported results that eliminate factors
and efficiency, in part mitigated by cost savings from actions taken
distorting year-on-year comparisons. The ‘constant currency
during 2023.
performance’ measure used throughout this report is described below.
Definitions and calculations of other alternative performance measures

[PAGE 89]

are included in our ‘Reconciliation of alternative performance measures’ Constant currency revenue and profit
on page 120. Also, the insurance-specific non-GAAP measure ‘Insurance
equity plus CSM net of tax‘, is provided on page 106, along with its before tax excluding notable items
definition and reconciliation to the GAAP measure. All alternative
and the impact of strategic
performance measures are reconciled to the closest reported
performance measure. transactions
The global business segmental results are presented on a constant
To aid the understanding of our results, we separately disclose ‘constant
currency basis in accordance with IFRS 8 ‘Operating Segments’ as
currency revenue excluding notable items and the impact of strategic
detailed in Note 10 ‘Segmental analysis’ on page 383.
transactions’ and ‘constant currency profit before tax excluding notable
Constant currency performance items and the impact of strategic transactions’. This measure excludes
the impact of strategic transactions classified as material notable items
Constant currency performance is computed by adjusting reported from constant currency revenue and profit before tax excluding notable
results for the effects of foreign currency translation differences, which items. At 31 December 2024, strategic transactions classified as
distort year-on-year comparisons. material notable items comprise the disposal of our retail banking
operations in France, our banking business in Canada, the sale of our
We consider constant currency performance to provide useful business in Argentina and the acquisition of SVB UK.
information for investors by aligning internal and external reporting, and
reflecting how management assesses year-on-year performance. The impacts quoted include the gains or losses on classification to held
for sale or acquisition and all other related notable items. They also
Notable items and material notable include the distorting impact between the periods of the operating
income statement results related to acquisitions and disposals that
items
affect period-on-period comparisons. It is computed by including the
operating income statement results of each business in any period for
We separately disclose ‘notable items’, which are components of our
which there are no results in the comparative period. We consider the
income statement that management would consider as outside the
monthly impacts of distorting income statement results when
normal course of business and generally non-recurring in nature.
calculating the impact of strategic transactions.
Certain notable items are classified as ‘material notable items’, which
For a reconciliation of ‘constant currency revenue excluding notable items
are a subset of notable items. Categorisation as a material notable item
and the impact of strategic transactions’ and ‘constant currency profit
is dependent on the nature of each item in conjunction with the financial before tax excluding notable items and the impact of strategic transactions’
impact on the Group’s income statement. We exclude material notable to reported revenue and reported profit respectively, see page 122.
items when computing our dividend payout ratio target basis. Material
notable items currently comprise the sale of our retail operations in Foreign currency translation
France and our banking business in Canada, the sale of our business in
differences
Argentina, the acquisition of SVB UK and the impairment of our
investment in BoCom.
Foreign currency translation differences reflect the movements of the
US dollar against most major currencies during 2024.
The tables on pages 99 to 101 and pages 113 to 118 detail the effects of
notable items on each of our global business segments, legal entities and
We exclude them to derive constant currency data, allowing us to assess
selected countries/territories in 2024, 2023 and 2022.
balance sheet and income statement performance on a like-for-like basis
Impact of strategic transactions and to better understand the underlying trends in the business.
To aid the understanding of our results, we separately disclose the Foreign currency translation differences for 2024 are computed by
impact of strategic transactions classified as material notable items on retranslating into US dollars for non-US dollar branches, subsidiaries,
the results of the Group and our global businesses. At 31 December joint ventures and associates:
2024, strategic transactions classified as material notable items in
current and comparative periods comprise the disposal of our retail – the income statements for 2023 and 2022 at the average rates of
banking operations in France, the disposal of our banking business in exchange for 2024; and
Canada, the sale of our business in Argentina and the acquisition of SVB – the balance sheets at 31 December 2023 and 31 December 2022 at
UK. the prevailing rates of exchange on 31 December 2024.
The impacts of strategic transactions include the gains or losses on No adjustment has been made to the exchange rates used to
classification to held for sale or on acquisition and all other related translate foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities into the
notable items. They also include the distorting impact between the functional currencies of any HSBC branches, subsidiaries, joint
periods of the operating income statement results related to acquisitions ventures or associates. The constant currency data of our operations
and disposals that affect period-on-period comparisons. This is in Argentina and Türkiye has not been adjusted further for the impacts
computed by including the operating income statement results of each of hyperinflation.
business in any period for which there are no results in the comparative
period. We consider the monthly impacts of distorting income When reference is made to foreign currency translation differences in
statement results when calculating the impact of strategic transactions. tables or commentaries, comparative data reported in the functional
currencies of HSBC’s operations have been translated at the appropriate
See page 102 for supplementary analysis of the impact of strategic
exchange rates applied in the current period on the basis described above.
transactions.
Constant currency revenue and profit Insurance metrics no longer reported
before tax excluding notable items Insurance manufacturing value of new business and Insurance
manufacturing proxy embedded value were previously presented as
We separately report ‘constant currency revenue excluding notable non-GAAP performance measures. The Group continues to review its
items’ and ‘constant currency profit before tax excluding notable items’, use of non-GAAP performance measures following implementation of
which exclude the impact of notable items and the impact of foreign IFRS 17 and has now discontinued the reporting of these measures.
exchange translation. We consider this measure to provide useful Instead ‘New business CSM’ is now management’s key new-
information to investors as it removes items which distort period-on- business performance measure, and ‘Equity plus CSM net of tax’ is
period comparisons. considered a measure of entity value more closely aligned with
IFRS 17.
For a reconciliation of ‘constant currency revenue excluding notable items’
and ‘constant currency profit before tax excluding notable items’ to reported
revenue and reported profit respectively, see page 122.
Financial
review

[PAGE 90]

Financial summary
Impact of hyperinflationary – Valuation of financial instruments: In determining the fair value of
financial instruments a variety of valuation techniques are used,
accounting some of which feature significant unobservable inputs and are
subject to substantial uncertainty. See Note 1.2(c) on page 357.
During 2024, we continued to treat Argentina and Türkiye as
hyperinflationary economies for accounting purposes. The impact of – Impairment of investment in subsidiaries: Impairment testing,
applying IAS 29 ‘Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies’ including testing for reversal of impairment, involves significant
and the hyperinflation provisions of IAS 21 ’The Effects of Changes in judgement in determining the value in use, and in particular
Foreign Exchange Rates’ for our operations in both Argentina and estimating the present values of cash flows expected to arise from
Türkiye was a decrease in the Group’s profit before tax of $917m continuing to hold the investment, based on a number of
(2023: $1,297m), comprising a decrease in revenue, including loss on management assumptions. See Note 1.2(a) on page 354.
net monetary position, of $840m (2023: $1,586m) and an increase in – Impairment of interests in associates: Impairment testing,
ECL and operating expenses of $77m (2023: decrease of $289m). including testing for reversal of impairment, involves significant
These numbers reflect an increase in the consumer price index (‘CPI’) judgement in determining the value in use, and in particular
of 3,915.03 (2023: 2,429.13 increase) for Argentina and 825.55 (2023: estimating the present values of cash flows expected to arise from
730.89 increase) for Türkiye. We have now completed the sale of our continuing to hold the investment, based on a number of
business in Argentina, so there will be no impact in 2025 of hyperinflation management assumptions. The most significant judgements relate
in this market, although comparative data will include the impact of to the impairment testing of our investment in Bank of
hyperinflation. Communications Co., Limited (‘BoCom’). See Note 1.2(a) on
page 354.
Critical estimates and judgements – Impairment of goodwill and non-financial assets: A high degree of
uncertainty is involved in estimating the future cash flows of the
The results of HSBC reflect the choice of accounting policies, cash-generating units (‘CGUs’) and the rates used to discount these
assumptions and estimates that underlie the preparation of HSBC’s cash flows. See Note 1.2(a) on page 354 and Note 1.2(n) on
consolidated financial statements. The material accounting policies, page 365.
including the policies which include critical estimates and judgements,
– Provisions: Significant judgement may be required due to the high
are described in Note 1.2 on the financial statements. The accounting
degree of uncertainty associated with determining whether a
policies listed below are highlighted as they involve a high degree of
present obligation exists, and estimating the probability and amount
uncertainty and have a material impact on the financial statements:
of any outflows that may arise. See Note 1.2(m) on page 364.
– Impairment of amortised cost financial assets and financial assets – Post-employment benefit plans: The calculation of the defined benefit
measured at fair value through other comprehensive income (‘FVOCI’): pension obligation involves the determination of key assumptions
The most significant judgements relate to defining what is considered including discount rate, inflation rate, pension payments and deferred
to be a significant increase in credit risk, determining the lifetime and pensions, pay and mortality. See Note 1.2(k) on page 363.
point of initial recognition of revolving facilities, selecting and calibrating
the probability of default (‘PD’), the loss given default (‘LGD’) and the Given the inherent uncertainties and the high level of subjectivity
exposure at default (‘EAD’) models, as well as selecting model inputs involved in the recognition or measurement of the items above, it is
and economic forecasts, making assumptions and estimates to possible that the outcomes in the next financial year could differ from
incorporate relevant information about late-breaking and past events, the expectations on which management’s estimates are based,
current conditions and forecasts of economic conditions, and selecting resulting in the recognition and measurement of materially different
applicable recovery strategies for certain wholesale credit-impaired amounts from those estimated by management in these financial
loans. A high degree of uncertainty is involved in making estimations statements.
using assumptions that are highly subjective and very sensitive to the
risk factors. See Note 1.2(i) on page 359.
– Deferred tax assets: The most significant judgements relate to those
made in respect of recoverability, which are based on expected
future profitability. See Note 1.2(l) on page 364.

[PAGE 91]

Consolidated income statement
Summary consolidated income statement
2024 2023 20221 2021 2020
$m $m $m $m $m
Net interest income 32,733 35,796 30,377 26,489 27,578
Net fee income 12,301 11,845 11,770 13,097 11,874
Net income from financial instruments held for trading or managed on a fair value basis2 21,116 16,661 10,278 7,744 9,582
Net income/(expense) from assets and liabilities of insurance businesses, including related
derivatives, measured at fair value through profit or loss 5,901 7,887 (13,831) 4,053 2,081
Net insurance premium income — — — 10,870 10,093
Insurance finance (expense)/income (5,978) (7,809) 13,799 — —
Insurance service result 1,310 1,078 809 — —
Gain on acquisition3 — 1,591 — — —
Gains/(losses) recognised on sale of business operations4 (1,752) (61) (2,678) — —
Other operating income/(expense)5 223 (930) 96 1,687 1,866
Total operating income 65,854 66,058 50,620 63,940 63,074
Net insurance claims and benefits paid and movement in liabilities to policyholders — — — (14,388) (12,645)
Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other
credit impairment charges6 65,854 66,058 50,620 49,552 50,429
Change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges (3,414) (3,447) (3,584) 928 (8,817)
Net operating income 62,440 62,611 47,036 50,480 41,612
Total operating expenses excluding impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets (32,966) (32,355) (32,554) (33,887) (33,044)
(Impairment)/reversal of impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets (77) 285 (147) (733) (1,388)
Operating profit 29,397 30,541 14,335 15,860 7,180
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures 2,912 2,807 2,723 3,046 1,597
Impairment of interest in associate — (3,000) — — —
Profit before tax 32,309 30,348 17,058 18,906 8,777
Tax expense (7,310) (5,789) (809) (4,213) (2,678)
Profit for the year 24,999 24,559 16,249 14,693 6,099
Attributable to:
– ordinary shareholders of the parent company 22,917 22,432 14,346 12,607 3,898
– preference shareholders of the parent company — — — 7 90
– other equity holders 1,062 1,101 1,213 1,303 1,241
– non-controlling interests 1,020 1,026 690 776 870
Profit for the year 24,999 24,559 16,249 14,693 6,099
Five-year financial information
2024 2023 20221 2021 2020
$ $ $ $ $
Basic earnings per share 1.25 1.15 0.72 0.62 0.19
Diluted earnings per share 1.24 1.14 0.72 0.62 0.19
Dividends per ordinary share (paid in the period)7 0.82 0.53 0.27 0.22 —
% % % % %
Dividend payout ratio8 50 50 44 40 79
Post-tax return on average total assets 0.8 0.8 0.5 0.5 0.2
Return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity 13.6 13.6 9.0 7.1 2.3
Return on average tangible equity 14.6 14.6 10.0 8.3 3.1
Effective tax rate 22.6 19.1 4.7 22.3 30.5
1 From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. Comparative data for the financial year ended
31 December 2022 have been restated accordingly. Comparative data for the years ended 31 December 2021 and 2020 are prepared on an IFRS 4 basis.
2 Includes a $255m gain (2023: $315m loss) on the foreign exchange hedging of the proceeds from the sale of our banking business in Canada and a $114m mark-
to-market gain (2023:nil) on interest rate hedging of the portfolio of retained loans post sale of our retail banking business in France.
3 Gain recognised in respect of the acquisition of SVB UK.
this line item only reflected the disposal of our France retail banking business. The amount in 2024 includes a $1.0bn loss on disposal and a $5.2bn loss on the recycling
in foreign currency translation reserve losses and other reserves arising on sale of our business in Argentina. This was partly offset by a gain of $4.6bn, inclusive of the
recycling of $0.6bn in foreign currency translation reserve losses and $0.4bn of other reserves losses but excluding the $255m gain on the foreign exchange hedging
(see footnote 2 above) on the sale of our banking business in Canada. The amount in 2023 primarily reflected losses due to restrictions impacting the recoverability of
assets in Russia, partly offset by a gain on sale of our retail banking operations in France. The amount in 2022 included losses from classifying businesses as held for
sale as part of a broader restructuring of our European business.
5 Other operating (expense)/income includes a loss on net monetary positions of $1,187m (2023: $1,667m; 2022: $678m) as a result of applying IAS 29 ‘Financial
Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies’.
6 Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges also referred to as revenue.
7 Includes dividend paid during the period, which consisted of a fourth interim dividend of $0.31 per ordinary share in respect of the financial year ended
31 December 2023 paid in April 2024 and the first, second and third interim dividends of $0.30 per ordinary share in respect of the financial year ending
31 December 2024. In addition, a special dividend of $0.21 per ordinary share from the Canada sale proceeds was paid in June 2024 along with the first interim
dividend.
8 In 2024 and 2023, our dividend payout ratio was adjusted for material notable items and related impacts. In 2022, our dividend payout ratio was adjusted for the
loss on classification to held for sale of our retail banking business in France, items relating to the sale of our banking business in Canada, and the recognition of
certain deferred tax assets. No items were adjusted for in 2021 and 2020.
Unless stated otherwise, all tables are presented on a reported basis.
For a summary of our financial performance in 2024, see page 27.
For further financial performance data for each global business and legal entity, see pages 98 to 102 and 110 to 120 respectively. The global business segmental
results are presented on a constant currency basis in accordance with IFRS 8 ‘Operating Segments’ as set out in Note 10: Segmental analysis on page 383.
Financial
review

[PAGE 92]

Financial summary
Income statement commentary
The following commentary compares Group financial performance for the year ended 2024 with 2023, unless otherwise stated.
Net interest income
Year ended Quarter ended
31 Dec 2024 31 Dec 2023 31 Dec 2022 31 Dec 2024 30 Sep 2024 31 Dec 2023
$m $m $m $m $m $m
Interest income 108,631 100,868 52,826 26,004 27,255 26,714
Interest expense (75,898) (65,072) (22,449) (17,819) (19,618) (18,430)
Net interest income 32,733 35,796 30,377 8,185 7,637 8,284
Average interest-earning assets 2,099,285 2,161,746 2,143,758 2,113,276 2,088,100 2,164,324
% % % % % %
Gross interest yield1 5.17 4.67 2.46 4.90 5.19 4.90
Less: gross interest payable1 (3.95) (3.47) (1.24) (3.60) (4.07) (3.83)
Net interest spread2 1.22 1.20 1.22 1.30 1.12 1.07
Net interest margin3 1.56 1.66 1.42 1.54 1.46 1.52
1 Gross interest yield is the average annualised interest rate earned on average interest-earning assets (‘AIEA’). Gross interest payable is the average annualised
interest cost as a percentage of average interest-bearing liabilities.
2 Net interest spread is the difference between the average annualised interest rate earned on AIEA, net of amortised premiums and loan fees, and the average
annualised interest rate payable on average interest-bearing funds.
3 Net interest margin is net interest income expressed as an annualised percentage of AIEA.
Summary of interest income by type of asset
2024 2023 2022
Average Interest Average Interest Average Interest
balance income Yield balance income Yield balance income Yield
$m $m % $m $m % $m $m %
Short-term funds and loans and advances to banks 349,517 14,727 4.21 403,674 14,770 3.66 445,659 5,577 1.25
Loans and advances to customers 949,825 49,879 5.25 957,717 47,673 4.98 1,022,320 32,543 3.18
Reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading1 238,694 17,721 7.42 240,263 14,391 5.99 231,058 4,886 2.11
Financial investments 470,182 20,587 4.38 407,363 16,858 4.14 372,702 7,704 2.07
Other interest-earning assets 91,067 5,717 6.28 152,729 7,176 4.70 72,019 2,116 2.94
Total interest-earning assets 2,099,285 108,631 5.17 2,161,746 100,868 4.67 2,143,758 52,826 2.46
Summary of interest expense by type of liability
2024 2023 2022
Average Interest Average Interest Average Interest
balance expense Cost balance expense Cost balance expense Cost
$m $m % $m $m % $m $m %
Deposits by banks2 66,405 2,930 4.41 60,392 2,401 3.98 75,739 770 1.02
Customer accounts3 1,385,840 40,173 2.90 1,334,803 34,162 2.56 1,342,342 10,903 0.81
Repurchase agreements – non-trading1 187,337 15,617 8.34 146,605 10,858 7.41 118,308 3,085 2.61
Debt securities in issue – non-trading 196,440 12,806 6.52 184,867 11,223 6.07 179,775 5,607 3.12
Other interest-bearing liabilities 84,773 4,372 5.16 146,216 6,428 4.40 87,965 2,084 2.37
Total interest-bearing liabilities 1,920,795 75,898 3.95 1,872,883 65,072 3.47 1,804,129 22,449 1.24
1 The average balances for repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements include net amounts where the criteria for offsetting are met, resulting in a lower net
balance reported for repurchase agreements and thus higher cost.
2 Including interest-bearing bank deposits only.
3 Including interest-bearing customer accounts only.
Net interest income (‘NII’) for 2024 was $32.7bn, a decrease of Net interest margin (‘NIM’) for 2024 of 1.56% was 10bps lower
$3.1bn or 9% compared with 2023. The decrease included a $2.7bn compared with 2023, reflecting redeployment of our commercial
reduction mainly due to the redeployment of our commercial surplus surplus to net trading and fair value assets, and higher interest
to net trading and fair value assets, for which the associated revenue expense due to higher market rates and an adverse impact of $0.2bn
is reported in ‘net income on financial instruments held for trading or from the early redemption of legacy securities. The decrease in NIM
managed on a fair value basis‘. The fall also reflected a $1.0bn loss in 2024 included the unfavourable impact of foreign currency
due to the disposal of our business in Canada and a $0.2bn loss in translation differences. Excluding this, NIM decreased by 6bps. NIM
2024 related to the early redemption of legacy securities. NII in HSBC for the fourth quarter of 2024 was 1.54%, up 8bps compared with the
UK grew by $0.6bn, including the benefit of our structural hedge and previous quarter, and up 2bps compared with the fourth quarter of
balance sheet growth, partly offset by mortgage pricing pressures. 2023. The increase against the previous quarter was primarily due to
There was also higher NII in Markets Treasury due to reinvestments the non-recurrence of the adverse impact from the early redemption
in our portfolio at higher yields. Excluding the unfavourable impact of of legacy securities. The year-on-year increase was predominantly
foreign currency translation differences, net interest income driven by HSBC UK.
decreased by $1.4bn or 4%. NII for the fourth quarter of 2024 was
$8.2bn, up 7% compared with the previous quarter, and down 1% Interest income for 2024 of $108.6bn increased by $7.8bn compared
with 2023, primarily due to an increase in market interest rates.
compared with the fourth quarter of 2023. The increase compared
with 3Q24 was predominantly driven by the non-recurrence of the
Interest income of $26bn in the fourth quarter of 2024 was down
adverse impact in 3Q24 from the early redemption of legacy
$1.3bn compared with the previous quarter, and down $0.7bn
securities. The decline in NII compared with 4Q23 was predominantly
compared with the fourth quarter of 2023. Both the declines were
driven by the impact of lower AIEA.
primarily due to lower market interest rates.

[PAGE 93]

The change in interest income in 2024 compared with 2023 included The rise in interest expense included the favourable effects of foreign
an adverse impact of foreign currency translation differences of currency translation differences of $1.1bn. Excluding this, interest
$2.7bn. After excluding foreign currency translation differences, expense increased by $11.9bn.
interest income increased by $10.5bn.
Interest expense of $17.8bn in the fourth quarter of 2024 was $1.8bn
Interest expense for 2024 of $75.9bn increased by $10.8bn and $0.6bn lower compared with the third quarter of 2024 and the
compared with 2023, primarily due to an increase in market interest fourth quarter of 2023 respectively. The decrease against the previous
rates, growth in customer accounts with higher proportion for term quarter was due to the non-recurrence of an adverse impact from the
deposits and the impact of the early redemption of legacy securities. early redemption of legacy securities. The year-on-year decline was
primarily due to lower market interest rates.
Banking net interest income
Year ended Quarter ended
31 Dec 2024 31 Dec 2023 31 Dec 2024 30 Sep 2024 31 Dec 2023
$m $m $m $m $m
Net interest income 32,733 35,796 8,185 7,637 8,284
Banking book funding costs used to generate ‘net income from financial instruments
held for trading or managed on a fair value basis’ 11,434 8,744 2,874 3,051 2,542
Third-party net interest income from insurance (429) (445) (109) (104) (109)
Banking net interest income 43,738 44,095 10,950 10,584 10,717
– of which:
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited 21,691 22,024 5,464 5,475 5,566
HSBC UK Bank plc 10,368 9,684 2,663 2,643 2,455
HSBC Bank plc 4,630 4,596 1,182 1,152 1,205
Banking net interest income is an alternative performance measure, Net fee income of $12.3bn was $0.5bn or 4% higher than in 2023,
and is defined as Group reported net interest income after deducting: and included an adverse impact from foreign currency translation
differences of $0.2bn, as well as a reduction of $0.4bn due to the
– the internal cost to fund trading and fair value net assets for which
impact of the disposal of our banking business in Canada. On a
associated revenue is reported in ‘Net income from financial
constant currency basis, net fee income was $0.6bn higher, driven by
instruments held for trading or managed on a fair value basis’, also
an increase in WPB, while a smaller rise in GBM was offset by a
referred to as ‘trading and fair value income’. These funding costs
reduction in CMB.
reflect proxy overnight or term interest rates as applied by internal
funds transfer pricing; In WPB, net fee income increased by $0.6bn. The rise was mainly
due to higher income from unit trusts, broking income and funds
– the funding costs of foreign exchange swaps in Markets Treasury,
under management, including in Hong Kong. This reflected stronger
where an offsetting income or loss is recorded in trading and fair
equity markets and improved customer sentiment. Cards income
value income. These instruments are used to manage foreign
grew, including in our main entity in Mexico, as customer spending
currency deployment and funding in our entities; and
increased, as well as in our legal entities in Asia, which mitigated the
– third-party net interest income in our insurance business. reduction from the disposal of our banking business in Canada. The
growth in cards activity resulted in a corresponding rise in fee
In our segmental disclosures, the funding costs of trading and fair
expense.
value net assets are predominantly recorded in GBM in ‘net income
from financial instruments held for trading or managed on a fair value In GBM, net fee income was stable, including an adverse impact of
basis’. On consolidation, this funding is eliminated in Corporate foreign currency translation of $42m. There was higher broking and
Centre, resulting in an increase in the funding costs reported in NII underwriting income in our main entity in Europe, although this was
with an equivalent offsetting increase in ‘net income from financial partly offset by a rise in associated fee expense. In addition, there
instruments held for trading or managed on a fair value basis’ in this was higher fee expense relating to broking and custody, as well as
segment. In the consolidated Group results, the cost to fund these intercompany fee expenses incurred on behalf of other global
trading and fair value net assets is reported in NII. businesses.
Banking NII was $43.7bn in 2024. The funding costs associated with In CMB, net fee income decreased by $0.1bn driven by lower fees
generating trading and fair value income were $11.4bn, an increase of from credit facilities, notably due to the disposal of our banking
$2.7bn compared with 2023, primarily reflecting redeployment of our operations in Canada. This reduction was partly offset by an increase
commercial surplus to net trading and fair value assets. Banking NII in fee income from GBM products sold to CMB customers.
also deducts third-party NII related to our insurance business, which
was $0.4bn, stable compared with 2023. The movement in banking Net income from financial instruments held for trading or
NII also included a reduction from the disposal of our business in managed on a fair value basis of $21.1bn was $4.5bn higher
Canada of $1.0bn, a $0.2bn loss in 2024 related to the early compared with 2023. This included favourable fair value movements
redemption of legacy securities and from higher interest expense on of $0.6bn on the foreign exchange hedging of the proceeds of the
deposits in part due to balance growth. Banking NII in HSBC UK grew sale of our banking business in Canada until completion of the sale.
by $0.7bn, including the benefit of our structural hedge and balance The increase also reflected higher client activity and elevated volatility
sheet growth, partly offset by mortgage pricing pressures. There was in Markets and Securities Services in GBM. A component of funding
higher NII in Markets Treasury due to reinvestments in our portfolio at costs incurred to generate this income are reported in NII, and these
higher yields. increased by $2.7bn, compared with 2023.
The internally allocated funding to generate trading and fair value In WPB, income rose by $0.2bn due to a favourable movement
income was approximately $200bn at 31 December 2024, a rise of related to derivatives in our insurance business and from higher
approximately $37bn since 31 December 2023, although it decreased customer trading activity in Wealth, including in our main legal entity
by approximately $9bn during 4Q24. This relates to trading, fair value in Asia.
and associated net asset balances predominantly in GBM. The
increase reflected management decisions on the deployment of our
commercial surplus.
Financial
review

[PAGE 94]

Financial summary
Net income from assets and liabilities of insurance businesses, Other operating income of $0.2bn was $1.3bn higher than in 2023.
including related derivatives, measured at fair value through The increase primarily related to the non-recurrence of losses in 2023
profit or loss of $5.9bn fell by $2.0bn compared with 2023. This of $1.0bn relating to Treasury repositioning and risk management.
decrease reflected adverse fair value movements on debt securities,
The increase also included the non-recurrence of a loss of $0.3bn in
due to movements in interest rates, including in our portfolios in Hong
2023 relating to corrections to historical valuation estimates in our life
Kong and France, partly offset by improved equity returns.
insurance business, and losses related to the disposal of our New
This unfavourable movement resulted in a corresponding reduction in Zealand retail mortgage loan portfolio and the merger of HSBC Bank
insurance finance expense, which has an offsetting impact for the Oman in 2023 with Sohar International.
related liabilities to policyholders.
Change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment
Insurance finance expense of $6.0bn was $1.8bn lower than in charges (‘ECL’) were a charge of $3.4bn, stable compared with 2023.
2023, reflecting the impact of investment returns on underlying
ECL charges in CMB were $1.8bn in 2024 and in GBM charges were
assets on the value of liabilities to policyholders, which moves
$0.2bn. This included charges of $0.4bn in respect of commercial real
inversely with ‘net income from assets and liabilities of insurance
estate in mainland China and of $0.1bn in the Hong Kong real estate
businesses, including related derivatives, measured at fair value
sector. This compared with charges of $1.0bn and $0.1bn
through profit or loss’.
respectively in these sectors in 2023. In addition, ECL in CMB in 2024
Insurance service result of $1.3bn increased by $0.2bn compared included a charge related to a single exposure in the UK, while
with 2023, primarily due to an increase in the release of the charges in HSBC UK reduced compared with 2023. In GBM, charges
contractual service margin (‘CSM’). in 2024 also benefited from a release of stage 3 allowances in HSBC
Bank plc related to a single exposure.
Gain on acquisition fell by $1.6bn, reflecting the non-recurrence of a
gain recognised in respect of the acquisition of SVB UK in 1Q23. In WPB, ECL charges were $1.3bn. These primarily related to our
legal entity in Mexico, reflecting growth in our unsecured lending
Losses recognised on sale of business operations were $1.8bn in portfolio and unemployment trends, and also in Hong Kong.
2024. This compared with a gain of $61m in 2023. In 2024, there
were losses from completion of the disposal of our business in For further details on the calculation of ECL, including the
Argentina, comprising the recycling of $5.2bn of foreign currency measurement uncertainties and significant judgements applied to
translation reserve losses and other reserves to the income such calculations, the impact of the economic scenarios and
statement and a $1.0bn loss on disposal. This was partly offset by a management judgemental adjustments, see pages 147 to 160.
gain of $4.6bn on the sale of our banking business in Canada,
inclusive of recycling of foreign currency translation reserve and other
reserve losses to the income statement.
Operating expenses
Year ended
2024 2023 2022
$m $m $m
Gross employee compensation and benefits 20,153 19,623 19,288
Capitalised wages and salaries (1,688) (1,403) (1,285)
Property and equipment 4,786 4,285 4,949
Amortisation and impairment of intangibles 2,235 1,827 1,701
UK bank levy 249 339 13
Legal proceedings and regulatory matters 145 188 246
Other operating expenses1 7,163 7,211 7,789
Reported operating expenses 33,043 32,070 32,701
Currency translation (576) (472)
Constant currency operating expenses 33,043 31,494 32,229
1 Other operating expenses includes professional fees, contractor costs, transaction taxes, marketing and travel.
Staff numbers (full-time equivalents)1
2024 2023 2022
Global businesses
Wealth and Personal Banking 119,791 128,399 128,764
Commercial Banking 45,190 45,884 43,640
Global Banking and Markets 45,983 46,241 46,435
Corporate Centre 340 337 360
At 31 Dec 211,304 220,861 219,199
1 Represents the number of full-time equivalent people with contracts of service with the Group who are being paid at the reporting date.

[PAGE 95]

Operating expenses of $33.0bn were $1.0bn or 3% higher than in Tax expense
2023, including a favourable impact of $0.6bn from foreign currency
translation differences. The increase reflected higher spend and 2024 2023
investment in technology and inflationary impacts, while performance- $m $m
related pay remained stable. Operating expenses were adversely Tax (charge)/credit
impacted by the non-recurrence of a $0.2bn reversal of historical Reported (7,310) (5,789)
asset impairments in 2023. Currency translation — 222
Constant currency tax (charge)/credit (7,310) (5,567)
These increases were partly offset by the favourable impacts from
the completion of business disposals in Canada and France, and a Notable items
lower UK bank levy of $0.1bn, as 2023 included adjustments relating 2024 2023
to prior years. Operating expenses in 2024 benefited from the non-
$m $m
recurrence of a $0.2bn charge in 2023 incurred in the US relating to
Tax
the FDIC special assessment.
Tax (charge)/credit on notable items 108 207
Target basis operating expense growth was 5% compared with 2023, Uncertain tax positions — 427
in line with our cost growth target. This primarily reflected higher
investment spend, including in technology and from inflationary Tax expense
pressures, while our performance-related pay accrual was broadly in The effective tax rate for 2024 of 22.6% was higher than the 19.1%
line with 2023. Our target basis operating expenses are measured on in 2023. The effective tax rate for 2024 was increased by 4.8
a constant currency basis, excluding notable items, the impact of percentage points by the non-deductible loss on disposal of our
retranslating the prior year results of hyperinflationary economies at business in Argentina and by 0.7 percentage points by the tax charge
constant currency, and the direct costs from the sales of our French arising under the Global Minimum Tax rules, and reduced by 3.6
retail banking operations and our banking business in Canada. percentage points by the non-taxable gain on disposal of our banking
business in Canada. The effective tax rate for 2023 was increased by
For a reconciliation of target basis operating expense to reported operating
2.3 percentage points by the non-deductible impairment of expenses see page 124.
investments in associates, and reduced by 1.6 percentage points by
The number of employees expressed in full-time equivalent staff
the release of provisions for uncertain tax positions and by 1.5
(‘FTE’) at 31 December 2024 was 211,304, a decrease of 9,557
percentage points by the non-taxable accounting gain arising on the
compared with 31 December 2023, primarily reflecting the
acquisition of SVB UK.
completion of the sales of our banking business in Canada, our retail
banking operations in France and our business in Argentina. The Return on average tangible equity
number of contractors at 31 December 2024 was 4,226, a decrease
In 2024, RoTE was 14.6%, compared with 14.6% in 2023. RoTE
of 450.
excluding notables was 16.0% in 2024, compared with 16.2% in
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures of $2.9bn was 2023.
$3.1bn higher than in 2023, including an increase in the share of profit
from SAB.
Impairment of interest in associate. In relation to our investment in
BoCom, at 31 December 2024 we concluded that there was no
indication of further significant impairment (or indication that an
impairment may no longer exist or may have decreased significantly)
since 31 December 2023.
At 31 December 2023, the Group performed an impairment test on
the carrying value of our investment in BoCom which resulted in an
impairment of $3.0bn.
For further details of our impairment review process, see Note 18: Interests
in associates and joint ventures on page 401.
Financial
review

[PAGE 96]

Financial summary
Consolidated balance sheet
Five-year summary consolidated balance sheet
2024 2023 20221 2021 2020
$m $m $m $m $m
Assets
Cash and balances at central banks 267,674 285,868 327,002 403,018 304,481
Trading assets 314,842 289,159 218,093 248,842 231,990
Financial assets designated and otherwise mandatorily measured at fair value
through profit or loss 115,769 110,643 100,101 49,804 45,553
Derivatives 268,637 229,714 284,159 196,882 307,726
Loans and advances to banks 102,039 112,902 104,475 83,136 81,616
Loans and advances to customers 930,658 938,535 923,561 1,045,814 1,037,987
Reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading 252,549 252,217 253,754 241,648 230,628
Financial investments 493,166 442,763 364,726 446,274 490,693
Assets held for sale 27,234 114,134 115,919 3,411 299
Other assets 244,480 262,742 257,496 239,110 253,191
Total assets at 31 Dec 3,017,048 3,038,677 2,949,286 2,957,939 2,984,164
Liabilities
Deposits by banks 73,997 73,163 66,722 101,152 82,080
Customer accounts 1,654,955 1,611,647 1,570,303 1,710,574 1,642,780
Repurchase agreements – non-trading 180,880 172,100 127,747 126,670 111,901
Trading liabilities 65,982 73,150 72,353 84,904 75,266
Financial liabilities designated at fair value 138,727 141,426 127,321 145,502 157,439
Derivatives 264,448 234,772 285,762 191,064 303,001
Debt securities in issue 105,785 93,917 78,149 78,557 95,492
Insurance contract liabilities 107,629 120,851 108,816 112,745 107,191
Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale 29,011 108,406 114,597 9,005 —
Other liabilities 203,361 216,635 212,319 190,989 204,019
Total liabilities at 31 Dec 2,824,775 2,846,067 2,764,089 2,751,162 2,779,169
Equity
Total shareholders’ equity 184,973 185,329 177,833 198,250 196,443
Non-controlling interests 7,300 7,281 7,364 8,527 8,552
Total equity at 31 Dec 192,273 192,610 185,197 206,777 204,995
Total liabilities and equity at 31 Dec 3,017,048 3,038,677 2,949,286 2,957,939 2,984,164
1 From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. Comparative data for the financial year ended
31 December 2022 have been restated accordingly. Comparative data for the years ended 31 December 2021 and 2020 are prepared on an IFRS 4 basis.
A more detailed consolidated balance sheet is contained in the financial statements on page 343.
Five-year selected financial information
2024 2023 20221 2021 2020
$m $m $m $m $m
Called up share capital 8,973 9,631 10,147 10,316 10,347
Capital resources2 172,386 171,204 162,423 177,786 184,423
Undated subordinated loan capital 17 18 1,967 1,968 1,970
Preferred securities and dated subordinated loan capital3 35,258 36,413 29,921 28,568 30,721
Risk-weighted assets 838,254 854,114 839,720 838,263 857,520
Total shareholders’ equity 184,973 185,329 177,833 198,250 196,443
Less: preference shares and other equity instruments (19,070) (17,719) (19,746) (22,414) (22,414)
Total ordinary shareholders’ equity 165,903 167,610 158,087 175,836 174,029
Less: goodwill and intangible assets (net of tax) (11,608) (11,900) (11,160) (17,643) (17,606)
Tangible ordinary shareholders’ equity 154,295 155,710 146,927 158,193 156,423
Financial statistics
Loans and advances to customers as a percentage of customer accounts 56.2% 58.2% 58.8% 61.1% 63.2%
Average total shareholders’ equity to average total assets 6.12% 6.01% 5.97% 6.62% 6.46%
Net asset value per ordinary share at year-end ($)4 9.26 8.82 8.01 8.76 8.62
Tangible net asset value per ordinary share at year-end ($)4 8.61 8.19 7.44 7.88 7.75
Tangible net asset value per fully diluted share at year-end ($) 8.54 8.14 7.39 7.84 7.72
Number of $0.50 ordinary shares in issue (millions) 17,947 19,263 20,294 20,632 20,694
Basic number of $0.50 ordinary shares outstanding, after deducting own shares
held (millions) 17,918 19,006 19,739 20,073 20,184
Basic number of $0.50 ordinary shares outstanding and dilutive potential ordinary
shares, after deducting own shares held (millions) 18,062 19,135 19,876 20,189 20,272
Closing foreign exchange translation rates to $:
$1: £ 0.797 0.784 0.830 0.739 0.732
$1: € 0.964 0.903 0.937 0.880 0.816
1 From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. Comparative data for the financial year ended
31 December 2022 have been restated accordingly. Comparative data for the years ended 31 December 2021 and 2020 are prepared on an IFRS 4 basis.
2 Capital resources are regulatory total capital, the calculation of which is set out on page 204.
3 Including perpetual preferred securities, details of which can be found in Note 29: Subordinated liabilities on page 416.
4 For the definition, see page 121.

[PAGE 97]

Combined view of customer lending and customer deposits1
2024 2023
$m $m
Loans and advances to customers 930,658 938,535
Loans and advances to customers of disposal groups reported in ‘Assets held for sale’ 965 73,285
– banking business in Canada — 56,129
– retail banking operations in France — 16,902
– private banking business in Germany 309 —
– business in South Africa 656 —
– other — 254
Non-current assets held for sale 12 92
Combined customer lending 931,635 1,011,912
Currency translation — (27,137)
Combined customer lending at constant currency 931,635 984,775
Customer accounts 1,654,955 1,611,647
Customer accounts reported in ‘Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale’ 5,399 85,950
– banking business in Canada — 63,001
– retail banking operations in France — 22,307
– private banking business in Germany 2,085 —
– business in South Africa 3,294 —
– other 20 642
Combined customer deposits 1,660,354 1,697,597
Currency translation — (38,656)
Combined customer deposits at constant currency 1,660,354 1,658,941
1 On 9 April 2024, HSBC Latin America B.V. entered into a binding agreement to sell its business in Argentina to Grupo Financiero Galicia (‘Galicia‘). The sale was
completed on 6 December 2024, so is not included in the table above.
Balance sheet commentary compared with 31 December 2023
At 31 December 2024, total assets of $3.0tn were $22bn or 1% lower These increases were partly offset by a $7.4bn (€7.1bn) transfer to
on a reported basis and increased by $45bn or 1% on a constant Corporate Centre of a portfolio of home and certain other loans
currency basis. retained following the sale of our retail banking operations in France.
Reported loans and advances to customers as a percentage of In CMB, customer lending was $6bn higher, reflecting increases in
customer accounts was 56.2% compared with 58.2% at our legal entities in mainland China (up $2bn), India (up $2bn), and
31 December 2023. The movement in this ratio reflected a higher Mexico (up $1bn). There were also increases in HSBC UK (up $2bn)
growth in customer accounts than in lending. and HSBC Bank plc (up $1bn) from higher revolving credit facility
balances and term lending. These increases were partly offset by a
Assets reduction in lending balances in our main legal entity in Hong Kong
Cash and balances at central banks decreased by $18bn or 6%, (down $3bn) due to lower market wide loan demand and competitive
which included an $11bn adverse impact of foreign currency pricing.
translation differences. The decrease was mainly in HSBC UK,
In GBM, customer lending balances were broadly stable. There was a
reflecting a reduction in repurchase agreements, as well as an
decrease in lending balances in our main legal entity in Hong Kong
increase in the deployment of our cash surplus into financial
(down $6bn) due to muted client demand. The reduction was broadly
investments. Cash also decreased in our legal entities in the US to a
offset by growth in our legal entity in Singapore (up $3bn) reflecting
partial redeployment of surplus liquidity to reverse repurchase
higher overdraft balances, and in our main legal entity in Australia (up
agreements, and in Hong Kong due to lower balances maintained for
$2bn) from higher term lending balances.
faster payment system flow. This was partly offset by increases in
HSBC Bank plc from an increase in deposit bank balances and In Corporate Centre, the increase in customer balances of $7bn
issuances of new commercial paper and certificates of deposit. reflected the transfer of balances from WPB, mentioned above.
Trading assets increased by $26bn or 9%, mainly as we captured Financial investments increased by $50bn or 11%, mainly in our
increased client activity in equity and debt securities, particularly in main legal entities in Hong Kong and Singapore as well as in HSBC
our legal entity in Hong Kong and in HSBC Bank plc. The increase in UK and HSBC Bank plc from the purchase of debt securities, treasury
trading assets also reflected the use of surplus liquidity to fund and other eligible bills, as we redeployed our commercial surplus to
trading activities given the subdued demand for customer lending. benefit from higher yield curves and enhance our hedging activities on
net interest income. The increase was across both debt instruments
Derivative assets increased by $39bn or 17%, reflecting an increase
held at fair value through other comprehensive income and
in foreign exchange contracts, mainly in HSBC Bank plc and our legal
instruments held at amortised cost.
entities in Asia, as a result of foreign exchange rate movements. The
increase in derivative assets was consistent with the increase in Assets held for sale decreased by $87bn or 76% following the
derivative liabilities, as the underlying risk is broadly matched. completion of the sales of our retail banking operations in France and
our banking operations in Canada in 2024.
Loans and advances to customers of $931bn decreased by $8bn or
1% on a reported basis. This included an adverse impact of foreign Other assets decreased by $18bn or 7% primarily reflecting a
currency translation differences of $21bn. Loans and advances to reduction in settlement accounts balances, including in HSBC Bank
customers are net of allowances for ECL. plc as well as in our legal entities in the US and Hong Kong.
On a constant currency basis, loans and advances to customers
increased by $14bn, reflecting the following movements.
In WPB, customer lending increased by $2bn, reflecting growth in
mortgage balances, including in our main legal entities in the UK (up
$5bn) and the US (up $3bn). There was also growth in lending in
Private Banking (up $3bn) and in unsecured lending (up $1bn).
Financial
review

[PAGE 98]

Financial summary
Liabilities Equity
Customer accounts of $1.7tn increased by $43bn or 3% on a Total shareholders’ equity, including non-controlling interests, of
reported basis. This included an adverse impact of foreign currency $192bn was stable compared with 31 December 2023.
translation differences of $32bn.
Shareholders’ equity was increased by profits generated of $24bn and
On a constant currency basis, customer accounts increased by $75bn, net gains through other comprehensive income (‘OCI’) of $2bn. These
reflecting the following movements. increases were broadly offset by the impact of dividends paid of
$16bn, and the impact of our $11bn share buy-back activities in 2024.
In WPB, customer accounts grew by $31bn, reflecting higher interest-
bearing savings and time deposit balances due to strong deposit The net gains through OCI of $2bn included a favourable movement
inflow as interest rates remained high. The increase in customer of $6bn due to the recycling of foreign exchange and other reserves
accounts included growth in our main legal entities in Asia (up $30bn) to the income statement, primarily relating to the completion of
and in HSBC UK (up $6bn). disposals in Argentina and Canada, as well as a favourable movement
of $1bn from the effects of hyperinflation. These impacts were partly
In CMB, customer accounts increased by $25bn, primarily in our legal
offset by $5bn of exchange differences.
entities in Asia (up $12bn), including in Hong Kong (up $8bn) due to an
increase in term deposits and in mainland China (up $3bn) due to an Financial investments
increase in current and savings accounts. Balances also increased in
HSBC Bank plc (up $9bn) driven by organic growth from existing As part of our interest rate hedging strategy, we hold a portfolio of
customers as well as new to bank customers, and in our main legal debt instruments, reported within financial investments, which are
entity in Mexico (up $3bn). classified as hold-to-collect-and-sell. As a result, the change in value of
these instruments is recognised through ‘debt instruments at fair
In GBM, customer accounts increased by $20bn, due to higher value through other comprehensive income’ in equity.
balances in our legal entities in Asia (up $9bn) supported by term
deposit campaigns, and in HSBC Bank plc (up $8bn) driven by an At 31 December 2024, we had recognised a pre-tax cumulative
increase in short-term money market account balances. Balances also unrealised loss reserve through other comprehensive income of
rose in our main legal entity in the Middle East (up $3bn), including in $3.8bn related to these hold-to-collect-and-sell positions, excluding
term deposits and current accounts. investments held in our insurance business. This reflected a $0.1bn
pre-tax gain in 2024, inclusive of movements on related fair value
Debt securities in issue increased by $12bn or 13%, primarily in hedges. In 2023, we recognised a loss of $1.0bn in the income
HSBC Bank plc mainly driven by new commercial paper and statement in relation to Treasury repositioning and risk management
certificates of deposit issued to meet liquidity and funding actions in this portfolio, compared with minimal disposal losses in
requirements. 2024. Overall, the Group is positively exposed to rising interest rates
through NII, although there is an adverse impact on our capital base in
Derivative liabilities increased by $30bn or 13%, which is consistent
the early stages of a rising interest rate environment due to the fair
with the increase in derivative assets, since the underlying risk is
value of hold-to-collect-and-sell instruments. Over time, these adverse
broadly matched.
movements will unwind as the instruments reach maturity, although
Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale decreased by $79bn or not all will necessarily be held to maturity, or as interest rates begin to
73% following the completion of the sales of our retail banking fall.
operations in France and our banking operations in Canada during
We also hold a portfolio of financial investments measured at
2024.
amortised cost, which are classified as hold-to-collect. At
Other liabilities decreased by $13bn or 6%, including from a $9bn 31 December 2024, there was a cumulative unrecognised loss of
reduction in settlement account balances in our main legal entity in $2.9bn. This included an unrealised loss of $2.2bn that related to debt
the US. instruments held to manage our interest rate exposure, representing
a deterioration of $1.2bn during 2024.
Customer accounts by country/territory
2024 2023
$m $m
Hong Kong 575,141 543,504
UK 524,251 508,181
US 99,278 99,607
Singapore 76,737 73,547
Mainland China 63,169 56,006
France 40,384 42,666
Australia 31,951 32,071
Germany1 23,564 30,641
Mexico 27,525 29,423
UAE 28,008 24,882
India 27,199 24,377
Taiwan 17,067 16,949
Malaysia 17,038 15,983
Egypt 4,137 5,858
Indonesia 5,558 5,599
Türkiye 3,489 3,510
Other1 90,459 98,843
At 31 Dec 1,654,955 1,611,647
1 At 31 December 2024, customer accounts of $5bn met the criteria to be classified as held for sale and are reported within ‘Liabilities of disposal groups held for
sale’ on the balance sheet, of which $3bn and $2bn belongs to the planned sale of our South Africa business and planned sale of our private banking business in
Germany, respectively. Refer to Note 23 on page 411 for further details.

[PAGE 99]

Loans and advances, deposits by currency
At
31 Dec 2024
$m USD GBP HKD EUR CNY Others1 Total
Loans and advances to banks 33,727 15,267 5,340 4,137 8,129 35,439 102,039
Loans and advances to customers 171,530 286,797 203,586 68,437 51,966 148,342 930,658
Total loans and advances 205,257 302,064 208,926 72,574 60,095 183,781 1,032,697
Deposits by banks 31,415 18,771 3,973 8,788 4,114 6,936 73,997
Customer accounts 476,210 426,747 316,997 124,452 67,405 243,144 1,654,955
Total deposits 507,625 445,518 320,970 133,240 71,519 250,080 1,728,952
31 Dec 2023
Loans and advances to banks 33,231 15,632 7,106 4,688 8,772 43,473 112,902
Loans and advances to customers 170,274 284,261 213,079 68,655 49,594 152,672 938,535
Total loans and advances 203,505 299,893 220,185 73,343 58,366 196,145 1,051,437
Deposits by banks 28,744 18,231 2,597 6,997 4,517 12,077 73,163
Customer accounts 441,967 423,725 305,520 128,444 63,535 248,456 1,611,647
Total deposits 470,711 441,956 308,117 135,441 68,052 260,533 1,684,810
1 ‘Others’ includes items with no currency information available of $878m for loans to banks (2023: $1,592m), $941m for loans to customers (2023: $1,904m), nil
for deposits by banks (2023: $11m) and $6m for customer accounts (2023: $8m).
Risk-weighted assets
Risk-weighted assets (‘RWAs‘) decreased by $15.8bn during the year, – a $7.4bn increase mainly following a revision to the definition of
primarily due to strategic disposals of $47.8bn, a decrease of $22.2bn default in our probability of default (‘PD‘) models for exposures to
from foreign currency translation differences and a $8.9bn reduction financial institutions and post-model adjustments in Hong Kong,
from methodology and policy changes, mainly driven by a $7.5bn fall and a $6.3bn increase from credit risk migrations in Asia, including
due to regulatory changes related to the risk-weighting of residential in the Hong Kong commercial real estate sector.
mortgages in Hong Kong. These were offset by the increase of
In January 2025, the PRA announced the delay of Basel 3.1
$63.1bn RWAs, reflected in the following movements:
implementation to 1 January 2027 pending US developments. The
– a $49.4bn increase in asset size, which was in part attributed to a near-final rules released in September 2024 are now subject to a
$14.6bn rise in operational risk, driven by an increase in average three-year transitional provision, ensuring that the date for full
income. Further increases were due to corporate lending growth, implementation remains 1 January 2030. We expect that the impact
largely in HSBC UK Bank plc and in SAB, higher sovereign on our CET1 ratio will be a modest benefit.
exposures in Other trading entities and Asia, and retail mortgage
growth in the US and HSBC UK Bank plc; and
RWAs by currency
At
31 Dec 2024
$m USD GBP HKD EUR CNY Others Total
RWAs1 205,645 165,684 136,001 67,440 56,561 206,923 838,254
31 Dec 2023
RWAs1 202,697 155,231 135,701 69,996 57,907 232,582 854,114
1 RWAs include credit risk, market risk and operational risk RWAs.
Financial
review

[PAGE 100]

Global businesses
Global businesses and legal
entities
Contents Basis of preparation
The Group CEO, supported in 2024 by the rest of the GEC, is
98 Summary considered the Chief Operating Decision Maker (‘CODM’) for the
99 Supplementary analysis of constant currency results and notable purposes of identifying the Group’s reportable segments. Global
items by global business business results are assessed by the CODM on the basis of
103 Reconciliation of reported and constant currency risk-weighted assets constant currency performance. We separately disclose ‘notable
104 Supplementary tables for WPB and GBM items’, which are components of our income statement that
110 Analysis of reported results by legal entities management would consider as outside the normal course of
113 Summary information – legal entities and selected countries/territories business and generally non-recurring in nature. Constant currency
118 Analysis by country/territory performance information for 2023 and 2022 are presented as
described on page 87. As required by IFRS 8, reconciliations of the
total constant currency global business results to the Group’s
Summary reported results are presented on page 384.
Supplementary reconciliations from reported to constant currency
The Group CEO, supported in 2024 by the Group Executive
results by global business are presented on pages 99 to 101 for
Committee (‘GEC‘), reviewed operating activity on a number of bases,
information purposes.
including by global business and legal entities. Up to 31 December
2024, our global businesses – Wealth and Personal Banking, Global business performance is also assessed using return on
Commercial Banking, and Global Banking and Markets – along with tangible equity (‘RoTE’). A reconciliation of global business RoTE to
Corporate Centre were our reportable segments under IFRS 8 the Group’s RoTE is provided on page 123.
‘Operating Segments’ and are presented below and in Note 10:
Segmental analysis on page 383. Following our organisational Our operations are closely integrated and, accordingly, the
announcement in October 2024, effective from 1 January 2025 the presentation of data includes internal allocations of certain items of
Group’s operating segments will comprise four new businesses – income and expense. These allocations include the costs of certain
Hong Kong, UK, Corporate and Institutional Banking, and International support services and global functions to the extent that they can be
Wealth and Premier Banking – along with Corporate Centre. These meaningfully attributed to global businesses and legal entities. While
will replace our previously reported operating segments up to such allocations have been made on a systematic and consistent
31 December 2024. basis, they necessarily involve a degree of subjectivity. Costs that
are not allocated to global businesses are included in Corporate
For further details of our new operating segments effective from 1 January Centre.
2025, see page 103.
Where relevant, income and expense amounts presented include
the results of inter-segment funding along with inter-company and
inter-business line transactions. All such transactions are undertaken
on arm’s length terms. The intra-Group elimination items for the
global businesses are presented in Corporate Centre.
HSBC Holdings incurs the liability of the UK bank levy, with the cost
being recharged to its UK operating subsidiaries. The current year
expense will be reflected in the fourth quarter as it is assessed on
our balance sheet position as at 31 December.
The results of main legal entities are presented on a reported and
constant currency basis, including HSBC UK Bank plc, HSBC Bank
plc, The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited,
HSBC Bank Middle East Limited, HSBC North America Holdings
Inc., HSBC Bank Canada and Grupo Financiero HSBC, S.A. de C.V.
The results of legal entities are presented on a reported basis on
page 110 and a constant currency basis on page 113.

[PAGE 101]

Supplementary analysis of constant currency results and notable items by
global business
Constant currency results1
2024
Wealth and Global
Personal Commercial Banking and Corporate
Banking2 Banking Markets Centre Total
$m $m $m $m $m
Revenue3 28,674 21,580 17,529 (1,929) 65,854
ECL (1,335) (1,815) (235) (29) (3,414)
Operating expenses (15,204) (7,906) (10,231) 298 (33,043)
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures 47 1 — 2,864 2,912
Profit/(loss) before tax 12,182 11,860 7,063 1,204 32,309
Loans and advances to customers (net) 447,085 306,926 169,516 7,131 930,658
Customer accounts 823,267 490,475 340,898 315 1,654,955
1 In the current period constant currency results are equal to reported as there is no currency translation.
2 On 1 January 2024, HSBC Continental Europe completed the sale of its retail banking operations in France to CCF, a subsidiary of Promontoria MMB SAS (‘My
Money Group’). With effect from this date, we have prospectively reclassified the portfolio of retained loans, profit participation interest and licence agreement of
the CCF brand from WPB to Corporate Centre.
3 Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges, also referred to as revenue.
Notable items
2024
Wealth and Global
Personal Commercial Banking and Corporate
Banking Banking Markets Centre Total
$m $m $m $m $m
Notable items
Revenue
Disposals, acquisitions and related costs1 28 — (14) (1,357) (1,343)
– of which:
Argentina1 — — — (6,138) (6,138)
Canada2 — — — 4,924 4,924
France 55 — — 5 60
Early redemption of legacy securities — — — (237) (237)
Operating expenses
Disposals, acquisitions and related costs (3) (2) (2) (192) (199)
– of which:
Argentina — (9) — (34) (43)
Canada (1) (1) — (151) (153)
France 1 — — (6) (5)
Restructuring and other related costs3 (10) 2 (1) (25) (34)
1 Includes $1.0bn loss on disposal and a $5.2bn loss on the recycling in foreign currency translation reserve losses and other reserves arising on sale of our
business in Argentina.
2 Includes $4.8bn gain on disposal of our banking business in Canada, inclusive of a $0.3bn gain on the foreign exchange hedging of the sales proceeds, the
recycling of $0.6bn in foreign currency translation reserve losses and $0.4bn of other reserves losses.
3 Amounts relate to restructuring provisions recognised in 2024 and reversals of restructuring provisions recognised during 2022.
Financial
review

[PAGE 102]

Global businesses
Reconciliation of reported results to constant currency results – global businesses (continued)
2023
Wealth and Global
Personal Commercial Banking and Corporate
Banking Banking Markets Centre Total
$m $m $m $m $m
Revenue1
Reported 27,275 22,867 16,115 (199) 66,058
Currency translation (427) (471) (344) 96 (1,146)
Constant currency 26,848 22,396 15,771 (103) 64,912
ECL
Reported (1,058) (2,062) (326) (1) (3,447)
Currency translation 123 56 9 — 188
Constant currency (935) (2,006) (317) (1) (3,259)
Operating expenses
Reported (14,738) (7,524) (9,865) 57 (32,070)
Currency translation 386 290 (7) (93) 576
Constant currency (14,352) (7,234) (9,872) (36) (31,494)
Share of profit/(loss) in associates and joint ventures
Reported 65 (1) — (257) (193)
Currency translation (1) — — (62) (63)
Constant currency 64 (1) — (319) (256)
Profit/(loss) before tax
Reported 11,544 13,280 5,924 (400) 30,348
Currency translation 81 (125) (342) (59) (445)
Constant currency 11,625 13,155 5,582 (459) 29,903
Loans and advances to customers (net)
Reported 454,878 309,422 173,966 269 938,535
Currency translation (10,022) (8,319) (3,098) (7) (21,446)
Constant currency 444,856 301,103 170,868 262 917,089
Customer accounts
Reported 804,863 475,666 330,522 596 1,611,647
Currency translation (12,153) (10,571) (9,296) (14) (32,034)
Constant currency 792,710 465,095 321,226 582 1,579,613
1 Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges, also referred to as revenue.
Notable items (continued)
2023
Wealth and Global
Personal Commercial Banking and Corporate
Banking Banking Markets Centre Total
$m $m $m $m $m
Notable items
Revenue
Disposals, acquisitions and related costs1,2,3 4 1,591 — (297) 1,298
Fair value movements on financial instruments4 — — — 14 14
Disposal losses on Markets Treasury repositioning (391) (316) (270) — (977)
Operating expenses
Disposals, acquisitions and related costs (53) (55) 3 (216) (321)
Restructuring and other related costs5 20 32 21 63 136
Impairment of interest in associate6 — — — (3,000) (3,000)
1 Includes the impact of the sale of our retail banking operations in France.
2 Includes the gain of $1.6bn recognised in respect of the acquisition of SVB UK.
3 Includes fair value movements on the foreign exchange hedging of the proceeds from the sale of our banking business in Canada.
4 Fair value movements on non-qualifying hedges in HSBC Holdings.
5 Amounts relate to reversals of restructuring provisions recognised during 2022.
6 Relates to an impairment loss of $3.0bn recognised in respect of the Group’s investment in BoCom. See Note 18 on page 401 to 402.

[PAGE 103]

Reconciliation of reported results to constant currency results – global businesses (continued)
2022
Wealth and Global
Personal Commercial Banking and Corporate
Banking Banking Markets Centre Total
$m $m $m $m $m
Revenue1
Reported 21,103 16,494 14,899 (1,876) 50,620
Currency translation (331) (287) (357) (58) (1,033)
Constant currency 20,772 16,207 14,542 (1,934) 49,587
ECL
Reported (1,130) (1,849) (595) (10) (3,584)
Currency translation (30) (19) 17 1 (31)
Constant currency (1,160) (1,868) (578) (9) (3,615)
Operating expenses
Reported (14,415) (7,052) (9,383) (1,851) (32,701)
Currency translation 274 242 (20) (24) 472
Constant currency (14,141) (6,810) (9,403) (1,875) (32,229)
Share of profit/(loss) in associates and joint ventures
Reported 30 — (2) 2,695 2,723
Currency translation (1) 1 — (164) (164)
Constant currency 29 1 (2) 2,531 2,559
Profit/(loss) before tax
Reported 5,588 7,593 4,919 (1,042) 17,058
Currency translation (88) (63) (360) (245) (756)
Constant currency 5,500 7,530 4,559 (1,287) 16,302
Loans and advances to customers (net)
Reported 422,309 311,957 188,940 355 923,561
Currency translation 2,763 (2,733) (2,287) (5) (2,262)
Constant currency 425,072 309,224 186,653 350 921,299
Customer accounts
Reported 779,310 463,928 326,630 435 1,570,303
Currency translation 2,571 (1,122) (3,210) 8 (1,753)
Constant currency 781,881 462,806 323,420 443 1,568,550
1 Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges, also referred to as revenue.
Notable items (continued)
2022
Wealth and Global
Personal Commercial Banking and Corporate
Banking Banking Markets Centre Total
$m $m $m $m $m
Notable items
Revenue
Disposals, acquisitions and related costs1 (2,212) — — (525) (2,737)
Fair value movements on financial instruments2 — — — (618) (618)
Restructuring and other related costs3 98 (16) (184) (145) (247)
Operating expenses
Disposals, acquisitions and related costs (7) — — (11) (18)
Restructuring and other related costs (357) (266) (252) (2,007) (2,882)
1 Includes losses from classifying businesses as held for sale as part of a broader restructuring of our European business, of which $2.3bn (inclusive of $0.4bn in
goodwill impairments) related to the sale of the retail banking operations in France. Held-for-sale classification for the sale of the retail banking operations in
France was reversed in 1Q23 ($2.1bn loss reversed) and reinstated in 4Q23 ($2.0bn loss reinstated).
2 Fair value movements on non-qualifying hedges in HSBC Holdings.
3 Comprises gains and losses relating to the business update in February 2020, including losses associated with the RWA reduction programme.
Financial
review

[PAGE 104]

Global businesses
Strategic transactions supplementary analysis
The following table presents the selected impacts of strategic The impacts quoted include the gains or losses on classification to
transactions to the Group and our global business segments. These held for sale or acquisition and all other related notable items. They
comprise the strategic transactions where the financial impacts of the also include the distorting impact between the periods of the
acquisition or disposal have qualified for material notable item operating income statement results related to acquisitions and
treatment in our results. Material notable items are a subset of disposals that affect period-on-period comparisons. It is computed by
notable items and categorisation is dependent on the financial impact including the operating income statement results of each business in
on the Group’s income statement. At 2024, strategic transactions any period for which there are no results in the comparative period.
classified as material notable items in current and comparative We consider the monthly impacts of distorting income statement
periods comprise the disposal of our retail banking operations in results when calculating the impact of strategic transactions.
France, our banking business in Canada, the sale of our business in
Argentina and the acquisition of SVB UK.
Constant currency results
2024
Wealth and Global
Personal Commercial Banking and Corporate
Banking Banking Markets Centre Total
$m $m $m $m $m
Revenue 54 179 — (1,209) (976)
ECL — (3) — — (3)
Operating expenses (7) (76) — (191) (274)
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures — — — — —
Profit before tax 47 100 — (1,400) (1,253)
– HSBC Innovation Banking1 100 — 100
– Retail banking operations in France 47 (1) 46
– Banking business in Canada 4,773 4,773
– Business in Argentina (6,172) (6,172)
of which: notable items
Revenue 55 — — (1,209) (1,154)
Profit before tax 55 7 — (1,400) (1,338)
of which: distorting impact of operating results between periods
Revenue (1) 179 — — 178
Profit/(loss) before tax (8) 93 — — 85
2023
Revenue 690 2,407 49 (231) 2,915
ECL 22 (72) 11 — (39)
Operating expenses (658) (331) (59) (218) (1,266)
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures — — — — —
Profit/(loss) before tax 54 2,004 1 (449) 1,610
– HSBC Innovation Banking1 1,583 — 1,583
– Retail banking operations in France (141) (26) (167)
– Banking business in Canada 211 400 82 (424) 269
– Business in Argentina (16) 21 (81) — (76)
of which: notable items
Revenue 41 1,659 — (231) 1,469
Profit before tax (11) 1,607 — (449) 1,147
of which: distorting impact of operating results between periods
Revenue 649 748 49 — 1,446
Profit before tax 65 397 1 — 463
1 Includes the impact of our acquisition of SVB UK, which in June 2023 changed its legal entity name to HSBC Innovation Bank Limited.

[PAGE 105]

Reconciliation of reported and constant currency risk-weighted assets
At 31 Dec 2024
Wealth and Global
Personal Commercial Banking and Corporate
Banking Banking Markets Centre Total
$bn $bn $bn $bn $bn
Risk-weighted assets
Reported 181.1 337.9 231.9 87.4 838.3
Constant currency 181.1 337.9 231.9 87.4 838.3
At 31 Dec 2023
Risk-weighted assets
Reported 192.9 354.5 218.5 88.2 854.1
Currency translation (6.8) (12.6) (4.8) (1.1) (25.3)
Constant currency 186.1 341.9 213.7 87.1 828.8
At 31 Dec 2022
Risk-weighted assets
Reported 182.9 342.4 225.9 88.5 839.7
Currency translation (4.1) (9.3) (4.2) (0.5) (18.1)
Constant currency 178.8 333.1 221.7 88.0 821.6
New operating segments effective 1 January 2025 - summary results
Effective from 1 January 2025, the Group’s reporting segments under (HSBC Bank plc), Europe, and the Americas. International Wealth and
IFRS 8 ‘Operating Segments’ will comprise four new businesses – Premier Banking comprises Premier banking outside of Hong Kong
Hong Kong, UK, Corporate and Institutional Banking, and International and the UK, our Global Private Bank, and our wealth manufacturing
Wealth and Premier Banking – along with Corporate Centre. These businesses of Asset Management and Insurance.
will replace our previously reported operating segments up to
Selected 2024 financial information have been re-presented, for
31 December 2024.
illustrative purposes only, to align with the Group’s operating
The Hong Kong business comprises Personal Banking and segments effective from 1 January 2025 and are presented in the
Commercial Banking of HSBC Hong Kong and Hang Seng Bank. The following table. No additional adjustments have been made to this
UK business comprises UK Personal Banking (including first direct and information other than to reflect the presentation of the Group’s new
M&S Bank) and UK Commercial Banking including HSBC Innovation operating segments, and there are no changes to the Group’s total
Banking business outside of the UK and Hong Kong together with the presented in the following table is unaudited.
Global Banking and Markets business, the UK non-ringfenced bank
2024
Corporate International
and Wealth and
Institutional Premier Corporate
Hong Kong UK Banking Banking Centre Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m
Revenue 15,034 11,954 26,819 13,976 (1,929) 65,854
ECL (1,076) (402) (869) (1,038) (29) (3,414)
Operating expenses (4,837) (4,947) (14,544) (9,013) 298 (33,043)
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures less
impairment — — 1 47 2,864 2,912
Profit before tax 9,121 6,605 11,407 3,972 1,204 32,309
RoTE (%) c.38% c.25% c.14% c.16% c.1% 14.6%
At 31 Dec 2024
Loans and advances to customers (net) 235,208 267,293 284,701 136,325 7,131 930,658
Customer accounts 507,389 330,012 557,796 259,443 315 1,654,955
RWAs 143,668 133,495 388,047 85,673 87,371 838,254
For further details of our organisational update, see page 5.
Financial
review

[PAGE 106]

Global businesses
Supplementary tables for WPB and GBM
WPB constant currency performance by business unit
A breakdown of WPB by business unit is presented below to reflect the basis of how the revenue performance of the business units is
assessed and managed.
WPB – summary (constant currency basis)
Consists of1
Global
Total Banking Life Private Asset
WPB operations insurance Banking management
$m $m $m $m $m
2024
Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit
impairment charges2 28,674 22,842 1,840 2,611 1,381
– net interest income 20,352 18,819 326 1,193 14
– net fee income/(expense) 5,930 3,452 177 1,015 1,286
– other income 2,392 571 1,337 403 81
ECL (1,335) (1,334) — (1) —
Net operating income 27,339 21,508 1,840 2,610 1,381
Total operating expenses (15,204) (11,728) (716) (1,752) (1,008)
Operating profit 12,135 9,780 1,124 858 373
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures 47 14 33 — —
Profit before tax 12,182 9,794 1,157 858 373
2023
Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit
impairment charges2 26,848 21,920 1,396 2,268 1,264
– net interest income 19,902 18,455 282 1,167 (2)
– net fee income/(expense) 5,283 3,148 147 800 1,188
– other income 1,663 317 967 301 78
ECL (935) (933) 4 (6) —
Net operating income 25,913 20,987 1,400 2,262 1,264
Total operating expenses (14,352) (11,075) (683) (1,639) (955)
Operating profit 11,561 9,912 717 623 309
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures 64 14 50 — —
Profit before tax 11,625 9,926 767 623 309
2022
Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other
credit impairment charges2 20,772 16,267 1,337 2,039 1,129
– net interest income 15,887 14,576 342 975 (6)
– net fee income/(expense) 5,290 3,241 150 795 1,104
– other income (405) (1,550) 845 269 31
ECL (1,160) (1,146) (8) (5) (1)
Net operating income 19,612 15,121 1,329 2,034 1,128
Total operating expenses (14,141) (11,001) (787) (1,495) (858)
Operating profit 5,471 4,120 542 539 270
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures 29 12 17 — —
Profit before tax 5,500 4,132 559 539 270
1 Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges, also referred to as revenue.
2 From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. Comparative data for the year ended
31 December 2022 have been restated accordingly.

[PAGE 107]

Life insurance business performance
The following table provides an analysis of the performance of our life insurance business for the period. It comprises income earned by our
insurance manufacturing operations within our WPB business, as well as income earned and costs incurred within our Wealth insurance
distribution channels, consolidation and inter-company elimination entries.
Results of WPB’s life insurance business unit (constant currency basis)
2024 2023 2022
Insurance Insurance Insurance
manufac- Wealth manufac- Wealth manufac- Wealth
turing insurance Life turing insurance Life turing insurance Life
operations and other1 insurance operations and other1 insurance operations and other1 insurance
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Net interest income 326 — 326 282 — 282 345 (3) 342
Net fee income/(expense) 10 167 177 (25) 172 147 (31) 181 150
Other income 1,331 6 1,337 975 (8) 967 832 13 845
– insurance service result 1,356 (15) 1,341 1,120 (31) 1,089 868 (19) 849
– net investment returns (excluding net
interest income) (162) (15) (177) (198) 55 (143) (196) (24) (220)
– other operating income 137 36 173 53 (32) 21 160 56 216
Net operating income before change in
expected credit losses and other credit
impairment charges2 1,667 173 1,840 1,232 164 1,396 1,146 191 1,337
ECL — — — 4 — 4 (9) 1 (8)
Net operating income 1,667 173 1,840 1,236 164 1,400 1,137 192 1,329
Total operating expenses (601) (115) (716) (570) (113) (683) (593) (194) (787)
Operating profit 1,066 58 1,124 666 51 717 544 (2) 542
Share of profit/(loss) in associates and joint
ventures 33 — 33 50 — 50 17 — 17
Profit before tax 1,099 58 1,157 716 51 767 561 (2) 559
1 ‘Wealth insurance and other’ includes fee income earned and operating expenses incurred within our Wealth distribution channels. It also includes the IFRS 17
consolidation entries arising from transactions between our insurance manufacturing operations and Wealth distribution channels and with the wider Group, as
well as allocations of central costs benefiting life insurance.
2 Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges, also referred to as revenue.
Financial
review

[PAGE 108]

Global businesses
WPB insurance manufacturing (constant currency basis)
The following table shows the results of our insurance manufacturing operations for our WPB business and for all global business segments in
aggregate.
Results of insurance manufacturing operations1,2
2024 2023 2022
All global All global All global
WPB businesses WPB businesses WPB businesses
$m $m $m $m $m $m
Net interest income 326 363 282 321 345 370
Net fee expense 10 21 (25) (13) (31) (16)
Other income 1,331 1,326 975 965 832 842
Insurance service result 1,356 1,356 1,120 1,119 868 872
– release of contractual service margin 1,290 1,290 1,087 1,087 900 900
– risk adjustment release 74 74 44 44 47 47
– experience variance and other 36 36 31 30 50 54
– loss from onerous contracts (44) (44) (42) (42) (129) (129)
Net investment returns (excluding net interest income)3 (162) (165) (198) (205) (196) (208)
– insurance finance income/(expense) (5,985) (5,985) (7,718) (7,718) 13,882 13,885
– other investment income 5,823 5,820 7,520 7,513 (14,078) (14,093)
Other operating income 137 135 53 51 160 178
Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other
credit impairment charges4,5 1,667 1,710 1,232 1,273 1,146 1,196
Change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges — — 4 4 (9) (9)
Net operating income 1,667 1,710 1,236 1,277 1,137 1,187
Total operating expenses (601) (602) (570) (580) (593) (589)
Operating profit 1,066 1,108 666 697 544 598
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures 33 33 50 50 17 17
Profit before tax of insurance business operations5 1,099 1,141 716 747 561 615
Additional information
Insurance manufacturing new business contractual service margin (reported basis) 2,515 2,515 1,686 1,686 1,111 1,111
Consolidated Group new business contractual service margin (reported basis) 2,729 2,729 1,812 1,812 1,229 1,229
Annualised new business premiums of insurance manufacturing operations 4,912 4,912 3,797 3,797 2,354 2,354
Net dividends of insurance manufacturing operations (reported basis)6 1,522 1,522 813 813 (152) (152)
1 Constant currency results are derived by adjusting for period-on-period effects of foreign currency translation differences. The impact of foreign currency
translation differences on ‘All global businesses’ profit before tax was a $13m decrease for 2023 and a $60m decrease for 2022.
2 The results presented for insurance manufacturing are shown before elimination of inter-company transactions with HSBC non-insurance operations. The ‘All
global businesses‘ result consists primarily of WPB business, as well as a small proportion of CMB business.
3 Net investment return under IFRS 17 for all global businesses for 2024 was $198m (2023: $116m; 2022: $162m), which consisted of net interest income, net
income/(expenses) on assets held at fair value through profit or loss, and insurance finance income/(expense).
4 Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges, also referred to as revenue.
5 The effect of applying hyperinflation accounting in Argentina on insurance manufacturing operations in all global business resulted in a decrease of $53m in revenue in
2024 (2023: decrease of $35m, 2022: decrease of $7m) and a decrease of $53m in profit before tax in 2024 (2023: decrease of $35m, 2022: decrease of $6m).
6 Net dividends of insurance manufacturing operations include dividends paid to immediate parent companies of $1,612m (2023: $993m; 2022: $606m) net of
CET1 qualifying injections to fund business growth of $90m (2023: $180m; 2022: $758m including a $528m capital injection to fund the acquisition of AXA
Singapore).
Insurance manufacturing – Other operating income decreased by $0.1bn compared with
The following commentary, unless otherwise specified, relates to the 2022, and included a $0.3bn loss from corrections to historical
‘All global businesses’ results. valuation estimates, partly offset by gains of $0.2bn from
reinsurance contracts in Hong Kong.
Profit before tax of $1.1bn increased by $0.4bn compared with 2023.
This primarily reflected the following: Insurance manufacturing new business contractual service margin
increased by $0.8bn or 49% primarily in Hong Kong, from new
– Insurance service result of $1.4bn increased by $0.2bn compared
business volumes increasing and a $0.2bn benefit from recognising a
with 2023 primarily due to an increase in the release of CSM.
new reinsurance contract.
– Net investment return (excluding net interest income) remained
Annualised new business premiums (‘ANP’) is used to assess new
broadly unchanged, with negative impacts in China from reducing
insurance premiums generated by the business. It is calculated as
interest rates partly offset by gains in other markets.
100% of annualised first year regular premiums and 10% of single
– Other operating income increased by $0.1bn compared with 2023, premiums, before reinsurance ceded. ANP in 2024 increased by 29%
with the increase driven by the non-repeat of losses of $0.3bn in compared with 2023, primarily from strong new business sales in
2023 from corrections to historical valuation estimates, partly Hong Kong.
offset by current period losses on reinsurance contracts in Hong
Kong. Insurance equity plus CSM net of tax
Insurance equity plus CSM net of tax is a non-GAAP alternative
Profit before tax of $0.7bn in 2023 increased by $0.1bn compared performance measure that provides information about our insurance
with 2022. This primarily reflected the following: manufacturing operations’ net asset value plus the future earnings
– Insurance service result of $1.1bn increased by $0.3bn compared from in-force business. At 31 December 2024, insurance equity plus
with 2022. This was driven by an increase in the release of CSM of CSM net of tax was $17,025m (31 December 2023: $16,583m;
$0.2bn as a result of a higher closing CSM balance. The improved 31 December 2022: $14,646m).
insurance service result also reflected a reduction to losses from
At 31 December 2024, insurance equity plus CSM net of tax was
onerous contracts of $0.1bn, mainly in Hong Kong and Singapore,
calculated as insurance manufacturing operations equity of $7,015m
in part due to improved market conditions in 2023.
plus CSM of $12,063m less tax of $2,053m. At 31 December 2023, it
was calculated as insurance manufacturing operations equity of

[PAGE 109]

$7,731m plus CSM of $10,786m less tax of $1,934m. At Insurance metrics no longer reported
31 December 2022, it was calculated as insurance manufacturing Insurance manufacturing value of new business and Insurance
operations equity of $7,236m plus CSM of $9,058m less tax of manufacturing proxy embedded value were previously presented as
$1,648m. non-GAAP performance measures. The Group continues to review its
use of non-GAAP performance measures following implementation of
The increase of $0.4bn in 2024 insurance manufacturing equity plus
IFRS 17 and has now discontinued the reporting of these measures.
CSM net of tax compared to the prior year includes an increase in
Instead ‘New business CSM’ is now management’s key new
CSM net of tax of $1.2bn and a reduction in equity of $0.7bn. CSM
business performance measure, and ‘Equity plus CSM net of tax’ is
net of tax benefited from strong new business written in the period,
considered a measure of entity value more closely aligned with
partially offset by a reduction of $0.6bn from reclassification of our
IFRS 17.
French insurance business to held for sale. The reduction in insurance
manufacturing equity of $0.7bn primarily reflected the benefit of profit
after tax in the year of $0.9bn offset by net dividends paid of $1.5bn.
Net dividends of $1.5bn in 2024 have increased by $0.7bn primarily
due to releases of surplus regulatory capital in Hong Kong.
WPB: Wealth balances
The following table shows the wealth balances, which include invested assets and wealth deposits. Invested assets comprise customer assets
either managed by our Asset Management business or by external third-party investment managers, as well as self-directed investments by our
customers.
WPB – reported wealth balances1
2024 2023
$bn $bn
Global Private Banking invested assets 395 363
– managed by Global Asset Management 68 61
– external managers, direct securities and other 327 302
Retail invested assets 409 383
– managed by Global Asset Management 175 178
– external managers, direct securities and other 234 205
Asset Management third-party distribution 489 445
Reported invested assets1 1,293 1,191
Wealth deposits (Premier and Global Private Banking)2 555 536
Total reported wealth balances 1,848 1,727
1 Invested assets are not reported on the Group’s balance sheet, except where it is deemed that we are acting as principal rather than agent in our role as
investment manager. At 31 December 2024, $54bn of invested assets were classified as held for sale and are not included in the table above (2023: $32bn).
2 Premier and Global Private Banking deposits, which include Prestige deposits in Hang Seng Bank, form part of the total WPB customer accounts balance of
$823bn (2023: $805bn) on page 99. At 31 December 2024, $3bn of wealth deposits were classified as held for sale and are not included in the table above (2023:
$42bn).
Asset Management: funds under management
The following table shows the funds under management of our Asset Management business. Funds under management represents assets
managed, either actively or passively, on behalf of our customers. Funds under management are not reported on the Group’s balance sheet,
except where it is deemed that we are acting as principal rather than agent in our role as investment manager.
Asset Management – reported funds under management1
2024 2023
$bn $bn
Opening balance 684 595
Net new invested assets 30 54
Net market movements 47 23
Foreign exchange and others (18) 12
Transfer to Markets Treasury (12) —
Closing balance 731 684
Asset Management – reported funds under management by legal entities
2024 2023
$bn $bn
HSBC Bank plc 165 162
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited 223 198
HSBC North America Holdings Inc. 67 71
Grupo Financiero HSBC, S.A. de C.V. 15 15
Other trading entities2 261 238
Closing balance 731 684
1 Funds under management are not reported on the Group’s balance sheet, except where it is deemed that we are acting as principal rather than agent in our role
as investment manager.
2 Funds under management of $194bn in 2024 and $177bn in 2023 relating to our Asset Management entity in the UK are reported under ‘other trading entities’ in
the table above.
Financial
review

[PAGE 110]

Global businesses
At 31 December 2024, Asset Management funds under management amounted to $731bn, an increase of $47bn or 7%. The increase reflected
net new invested assets of $30bn and a positive impact from market performance. These increases were partly offset by an adverse impact of
foreign exchange translation of $18bn and from a reduction of $12bn due to a transfer of a portfolio forming part of the Group’s Holdings Capital
Buffer from Asset Management to our Markets Treasury function. Net new invested assets were mainly in long-term products, primarily passive
investment, alternative investment, and multi-asset investment products. These inflows were partly offset by redemptions from money market
instruments in the US.
Global Private Banking: client balances
Global Private Banking client balances comprises invested assets and deposits, which are translated at the rates of exchange applicable for their
respective year-ends, with the effects of currency translation reported separately.
Global Private Banking – reported client balances1
2024 2023
$bn $bn
Opening balance 447 383
Net new invested assets 23 17
Increase/(decrease) in deposits 1 9
Net market movements 37 19
Foreign exchange and others (24) 19
Closing balance 484 447
Global Private Banking – reported client balances by legal entities
2024 2023
$bn $bn
HSBC UK Bank plc 36 32
HSBC Bank plc 115 54
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited 251 209
HSBC North America Holdings Inc. 77 64
HSBC Bank Middle East Limited 3 —
Grupo Financiero HSBC, S.A. de C.V. 2 3
Other trading entities — 85
Closing balance 484 447
1 Client balances are not reported on the Group’s balance sheet, except where it is deemed that we are acting as principal rather than agent in our role as
investment manager. Customer deposits included in these client balances are on balance sheet.
Retail invested assets
The following table shows the invested assets of our retail customers. These comprise customer assets either managed by our Asset
Management business or by external third-party investment managers as well as self-directed investments by our customers.
Retail invested assets are not reported on the Group’s balance sheet, except where it is deemed that we are acting as principal rather than
agent in our role as investment manager.
Retail invested assets
2024 2023
$bn $bn
Opening balance 383 363
Net new invested assets1 28 26
Net market movements 23 7
Foreign exchange and others (25) (13)
Closing balance 409 383
Retail invested assets by legal entities
2024 2023
$bn $bn
HSBC UK Bank plc 31 29
HSBC Bank plc 8 31
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited 336 292
HSBC Bank Middle East Limited 3 3
HSBC North America Holdings Inc. 16 14
Grupo Financiero HSBC, S.A. de C.V. 10 9
Other trading entities 5 5
Closing balance 409 383
1 ‘Retail net new invested assets’ covers nine markets, comprising Hong Kong including Hang Seng Bank (Hong Kong), mainland China, Malaysia, Singapore,
HSBC UK, UAE, US, Canada and Mexico. The net new invested assets relating to all other geographies is reported in ‘foreign exchange and others’.

[PAGE 111]

WPB invested assets
Net new invested assets represents the net customer inflows from retail invested assets, Asset Management third-party distribution and Global
Private Banking invested assets. It excludes all customer deposits. The net new invested assets in the table below is non-additive from the
tables above, as net new invested assets managed by Asset Management that are generated by retail clients or Global Private Banking will be
recorded in both businesses.
WPB: Invested assets
2024 2023
$bn $bn
Opening balance 1,191 1,015
Net new invested assets 64 84
Net market movements 97 43
Foreign exchange and others (59) 49
Closing balance 1,293 1,191
WPB: Net new invested assets by legal entities
2024 2023
$bn $bn
HSBC UK Bank plc 3 1
HSBC Bank plc 9 3
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited 47 47
HSBC Bank Middle East Limited 1 1
HSBC North America Holdings Inc. (10) 7
Grupo Financiero HSBC, S.A. de C.V. 2 5
Other trading entities 12 20
Total 64 84
GBM: Securities Services and Issuer Services
Assets held in custody Assets under administration
Custody is the safekeeping and servicing of securities and other Our assets under administration business includes the provision of
financial assets on behalf of clients. Assets held in custody are not bond and loan administration services, transfer agency services and
reported on the Group’s balance sheet, except where it is deemed the valuation of portfolios of securities and other financial assets on
that we are acting as principal rather than agent in our role as behalf of clients and complements the custody business. At
investment manager. At 31 December 2024, we held $10.6tn of 31 December 2024, the value of assets held under administration by
assets as custodian, an increase of 9% compared with 31 December the Group amounted to $5.2tn, which was 6% higher than at
2023. The balance comprised $9.7tn of assets in Securities Services, 31 December 2023. The balance comprised $3.1tn of assets in
which were recorded at market value, and $0.9tn of assets in Issuer Securities Services, which were recorded at market value, and $2.1tn
Services, recorded at book value. of assets in Issuer Services, recorded at book value.
The increase was mainly in Securities Services balances. This was The increase was mainly driven by Securities Services balances due
driven by net asset inflows in Asia and Europe and favourable market to net asset inflows in Europe and Asia together with favourable
movements in Asia, North America and Latin America, partly offset by market movement, partly offset by adverse impact of currency
adverse impacts of currency translations in Asia and Europe. translations notably in Europe and Asia. Issuer Services balances also
rose driven by new issuances, including in the UK and the US, as well
as new assets, including in our legal entity in Hong Kong.
Financial
review

[PAGE 112]

Legal entities
Analysis of reported results by legal entities
HSBC reported profit/(loss) before tax and balance sheet data
2024
The Holding
Hongkong companies,
and HSBC HSBC Grupo shared
Shanghai Bank North Financiero service
HSBC Banking Middle America HSBC HSBC, Other centres and
UK Bank HSBC Corporation East Holdings Bank S.A. de trading intra-Group
plc Bank plc Limited Limited Inc. Canada C.V. entities eliminations Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Net interest income 10,331 1,254 15,077 1,590 1,613 300 2,292 2,774 (2,498) 32,733
Net fee income 1,672 1,629 5,449 508 1,372 129 630 1,076 (164) 12,301
Net income from financial
instruments held for trading or
managed on a fair value basis 580 6,042 11,781 331 914 33 504 411 520 21,116
Net income from assets and
liabilities of insurance businesses,
including related derivatives,
measured at fair value through profit
and loss — 1,100 4,608 — — — 22 183 (12) 5,901
Insurance finance income/(expense) — (1,261) (4,562) — — — (26) (150) 21 (5,978)
Insurance service result — 217 1,042 — — — 76 (7) (18) 1,310
Other income/(expense)1 169 576 658 75 365 — 75 (984) (2,463) (1,529)
Net operating income before
change in expected credit losses
and other credit impairment
charges2 12,752 9,557 34,053 2,504 4,264 462 3,573 3,303 (4,614) 65,854
Change in expected credit losses
and other credit impairment charges (405) (211) (1,532) (198) (81) (40) (864) (93) 10 (3,414)
Net operating income 12,347 9,346 32,521 2,306 4,183 422 2,709 3,210 (4,604) 62,440
Total operating expenses excluding
impairment of goodwill and other
intangible assets (5,124) (6,718) (14,296) (1,191) (3,349) (236) (1,992) (1,959) 1,899 (32,966)
Impairment of goodwill and other
intangible assets (11) (5) (33) (1) (2) — (2) (22) (1) (77)
Operating profit/(loss) 7,212 2,623 18,192 1,114 832 186 715 1,229 (2,706) 29,397
Share of profit in associates and
joint ventures less impairment3 1 22 2,278 — — — 15 600 (4) 2,912
Profit/(loss) before tax 7,213 2,645 20,470 1,114 832 186 730 1,829 (2,710) 32,309
% % % % % % % % % %
Share of HSBC’s profit before tax 22.2 8.2 63.4 3.4 2.6 0.6 2.3 5.7 (8.4) 100.0
Cost efficiency ratio 40.3 70.3 42.1 47.6 78.6 51.1 55.8 60.0 41.1 50.2
Balance sheet data $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Loans and advances to customers
(net) 272,973 103,464 449,940 20,440 55,786 — 23,439 4,617 (1) 930,658
Total assets 426,165 914,506 1,400,456 57,215 253,251 — 46,007 26,623 (107,175) 3,017,048
Customer accounts 340,233 297,785 845,284 34,808 99,278 — 27,525 9,999 43 1,654,955
Risk-weighted assets4,5,6 138,332 137,609 402,847 26,624 74,416 — 29,671 50,731 (648) 838,254

[PAGE 113]

HSBC reported profit/(loss) before tax and balance sheet data (continued)
2023
Holding
The companies,
Hongkong HSBC HSBC Grupo shared
and Shanghai Bank North Financiero service
Banking Middle America HSBC HSBC, Other centres and
HSBC UK HSBC Corporation East Holdings Bank S.A. de trading intra-Group
Bank plc Bank plc Limited Limited Inc. Canada C.V. entities eliminations Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Net interest income 9,684 2,674 16,705 1,551 1,712 1,275 2,148 3,765 (3,718) 35,796
Net fee income 1,597 1,527 4,859 475 1,237 559 581 1,225 (215) 11,845
Net income from financial
instruments held for trading or
managed on a fair value basis 516 4,220 9,507 397 729 110 437 1,054 (309) 16,661
Net income from assets and
liabilities of insurance businesses,
including related derivatives,
measured at fair value through profit
and loss — 1,438 6,258 — — — 39 323 (171) 7,887
Insurance finance income/(expense) — (1,460) (6,237) — — — (44) (166) 98 (7,809)
Insurance service result — 154 838 — — — 87 9 (10) 1,078
Other income/(expense)1 1,608 736 (31) 2 185 22 65 (1,481) (506) 600
Net operating income before change
in expected credit losses and other
credit impairment charges2 13,405 9,289 31,899 2,425 3,863 1,966 3,313 4,729 (4,831) 66,058
Change in expected credit losses
and other credit
impairment charges (523) (212) (1,641) (90) (94) (46) (696) (279) 134 (3,447)
Net operating income 12,882 9,077 30,258 2,335 3,769 1,920 2,617 4,450 (4,697) 62,611
Total operating expenses excluding
impairment of goodwill and other
intangible assets (4,602) (6,483) (13,379) (1,095) (3,473) (1,049) (1,823) (2,631) 2,180 (32,355)
Impairment of goodwill and other
intangible assets (10) 97 (16) (1) 222 — (3) (4) — 285
Operating profit/(loss) 8,270 2,691 16,863 1,239 518 871 791 1,815 (2,517) 30,541
Share of profit in associates and
joint ventures less impairment3 — (52) (696) — — — 14 544 (3) (193)
Profit/(loss) before tax 8,270 2,639 16,167 1,239 518 871 805 2,359 (2,520) 30,348
% % % % % % % % % %
Share of HSBC’s profit before tax 27.2 8.7 53.3 4.1 1.7 2.9 2.6 7.8 (8.3) 100.0
Cost efficiency ratio 34.4 68.7 42.0 45.2 84.2 53.4 55.1 55.7 45.1 48.5
Balance sheet data $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Loans and advances to customers
(net) 270,208 95,750 455,315 20,072 54,829 — 26,410 15,951 — 938,535
Total assets 423,029 896,682 1,333,911 50,612 252,339 90,731 47,309 59,051 (114,987) 3,038,677
Customer accounts 339,611 274,733 801,430 31,341 99,607 — 29,423 35,326 176 1,611,647
Risk-weighted assets4,5 129,211 131,468 396,677 24,294 72,248 31,890 32,639 59,574 6,704 854,114
Financial
review

[PAGE 114]

Legal entities
HSBC reported profit/(loss) before tax and balance sheet data (continued)
2022
Holding
The companies,
Hongkong HSBC HSBC Grupo shared
and Shanghai Bank North Financiero service
Banking Middle America HSBC HSBC, Other centres and
HSBC UK HSBC Corporation East Holdings Bank S.A. de trading intra-Group
Bank plc Bank plc Limited Limited Inc. Canada C.V. entities eliminations Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Net interest income 7,615 2,357 14,031 903 1,922 1,251 1,796 2,244 (1,742) 30,377
Net fee income 1,536 1,601 4,924 458 1,223 598 455 1,127 (152) 11,770
Net income from financial
instruments held for trading or
managed on a fair value basis 472 3,564 5,270 360 485 76 351 639 (939) 10,278
Net income/(expense) from assets
and liabilities of insurance
businesses, including related
derivatives, measured at fair value
through profit and loss — (1,761) (12,117) — — — (9) 66 (10) (13,831)
Insurance finance income/(expense) — 1,431 12,407 — — — 3 (32) (10) 13,799
Insurance service result — 149 636 — — — 50 (20) (6) 809
Other income/(expense)1 148 (1,920) 491 22 533 29 67 (521) (1,431) (2,582)
Net operating income before loan
impairment (charges)/recoveries and
other credit risk provisions2 9,771 5,421 25,642 1,743 4,163 1,954 2,713 3,503 (4,290) 50,620
Change in expected credit losses
and other credit impairment
(charges)/recoveries (563) (292) (2,090) 21 (20) (84) (507) (61) 12 (3,584)
Net operating income 9,208 5,129 23,552 1,764 4,143 1,870 2,206 3,442 (4,278) 47,036
Total operating expenses excluding
impairment of goodwill and other
intangible assets (4,667) (6,497) (13,011) (1,033) (3,429) (1,017) (1,631) (2,359) 1,090 (32,554)
Impairment of goodwill and other
intangible assets (54) 11 (42) (3) (9) (21) (5) (2) (22) (147)
Operating profit/(loss) 4,487 (1,357) 10,499 728 705 832 570 1,081 (3,210) 14,335
Share of profit in associates and
joint ventures less impairment — (38) 2,400 — — — 13 351 (3) 2,723
Profit/(loss) before tax 4,487 (1,395) 12,899 728 705 832 583 1,432 (3,213) 17,058
% % % % % % % % % %
Share of HSBC’s profit before tax 26.3 (8.2) 75.6 4.3 4.1 4.9 3.4 8.4 (18.8) 100.0
Cost efficiency ratio 48.3 119.6 50.9 59.4 82.6 53.1 60.3 67.4 24.9 64.6
Balance sheet data $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Loans and advances to customers
(net) 245,921 86,964 473,985 19,762 54,159 — 20,446 22,325 (1) 923,561
Total assets 412,522 863,308 1,297,806 48,086 239,117 94,604 39,939 67,345 (113,441) 2,949,286
Customer accounts 336,086 253,075 784,236 29,893 100,404 — 25,531 41,078 — 1,570,303
Risk-weighted assets4,5 110,919 127,017 406,985 22,490 72,446 31,876 26,744 60,289 8,144 839,720
1 Other income/(expense) in this context includes gain on acquisitions, impairment gain/(loss) relating to the sale of our retail banking operations in France, and
other operating income/(expense).
2 Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges, also referred to as revenue.
3 Includes an impairment loss of $3.0bn recognised in respect of the Group’s investment in BoCom.
4 Risk-weighted assets are non-additive across the legal entities due to market risk diversification effects within the Group.
5 Balances are on a third-party Group consolidated basis.
6 Other trading entities’ RWAs balance at 31 December 2024 includes HSBC Argentina operational risk RWAs, due to the averaging calculation and will roll off over
future reporting cycles.

[PAGE 115]

Summary information – legal entities and selected countries/territories
Legal entity reported and constant currency results¹
2024
The
Hongkong Holding
and companies,
Shanghai HSBC HSBC Grupo shared
Banking Bank North Financiero service
HSBC Corpo- Middle America HSBC HSBC, Other centres and
UK HSBC ration East Holdings Bank S.A. trading intra-Group
Bank plc Bank plc Limited Limited Inc. Canada de C.V. entities2 eliminations Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Revenue3 12,752 9,557 34,053 2,504 4,264 462 3,573 3,303 (4,614) 65,854
ECL (405) (211) (1,532) (198) (81) (40) (864) (93) 10 (3,414)
Operating expenses (5,135) (6,723) (14,329) (1,192) (3,351) (236) (1,994) (1,981) 1,898 (33,043)
Share of profit in associates and joint
ventures 1 22 2,278 — — — 15 600 (4) 2,912
Profit/(loss) before tax 7,213 2,645 20,470 1,114 832 186 730 1,829 (2,710) 32,309
Loans and advances to customers (net) 272,973 103,464 449,940 20,440 55,786 — 23,439 4,617 (1) 930,658
Customer accounts 340,233 297,785 845,284 34,808 99,278 — 27,525 9,999 43 1,654,955
1 In the current period, constant currency results are equal to reported, as there is no currency translation.
2 Other trading entities includes the results of entities located in Türkiye, Egypt and Saudi Arabia (including our share of the results of Saudi Awwal Bank) which do
not consolidate into HSBC Bank Middle East Limited. These entities had an aggregated impact on the Group’s reported profit before tax of $1,429m.
Supplementary analysis is provided on page 120 to provide a fuller picture of the MENAT regional performance.
3 Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges, also referred to as revenue.
Legal entity results: notable items
2024
The
Hongkong Holding
and companies,
Shanghai HSBC HSBC Grupo shared
Banking Bank North Financiero service
HSBC Corpo- Middle America HSBC HSBC, Other centres and
UK Bank HSBC ration East Holdings Bank S.A. trading intra-Group
plc Bank plc Limited Limited Inc. Canada de C.V. entities eliminations Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Revenue
Disposals, acquisitions and related
costs1 — (148) — — — — — (23) (1,172) (1,343)
Early redemption of legacy securities — — — — — — — — (237) (237)
Operating expenses
Disposals, acquisitions and related
costs 8 (9) — — (29) (36) — (61) (72) (199)
Restructuring and other related costs2 3 15 (5) (2) (4) — — (9) (32) (34)
1 Includes a $1.0bn loss on disposal and a $5.2bn loss on the recycling in foreign currency translation reserve losses and other reserves arising on sale of our
business in Argentina. This is partly offset by a $4.8bn gain on disposal of our banking business in Canada, inclusive of a $0.3bn gain on the foreign exchange
hedging of the sales proceeds, the recycling of $0.6bn in foreign currency translation reserve losses and $0.4bn of other reserves losses.
2 Amounts relate to restructuring provisions recognised in 2024 and reversals of restructuring provisions recognised during 2022.
Selected countries/territories results1
2024
Hong Mainland
UK2 Kong China US Mexico
$m $m $m $m $m
Revenue3 21,017 22,038 4,078 4,216 3,573
ECL (526) (1,273) (121) (81) (864)
Operating expenses (13,725) (8,886) (2,971) (3,350) (1,994)
Share of profit/(loss) in associates and joint ventures 24 8 2,241 — 15
Profit before tax 6,790 11,887 3,227 785 730
Loans and advances to customers (net) 313,925 272,152 44,551 55,786 23,439
Customer accounts 524,251 575,141 63,169 99,278 27,525
1 In the current period, constant currency results are equal to reported, as there is no currency translation.
2 UK includes HSBC UK Bank plc (ring-fenced bank), HSBC Bank plc (non-ring-fenced bank), the ultimate holding company, HSBC Holdings plc, and the separately
incorporated group of service companies (‘ServCo Group’).
3 Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges, also referred to as revenue.
Financial
review

[PAGE 116]

Legal entities
Selected countries/territories results: notable items
2024
Hong Mainland
UK1 Kong China US Mexico
$m $m $m $m $m
Revenue
Disposals, acquisitions and related costs1,2 285 — — — —
Early redemption of legacy securities (237) — — — —
Operating expenses
Disposals, acquisitions and related costs (50) (2) (7) (28) —
Restructuring and other related costs3 (42) (4) — (4) —
1 UK includes HSBC UK Bank plc (ring-fenced bank), HSBC Bank plc (non-ring-fenced bank), the ultimate holding company, HSBC Holdings plc, and the separately
incorporated group of service companies (‘ServCo Group’).
2 Includes fair value movements on the foreign exchange hedging of the sale of our banking business in Canada which is booked in HSBC Overseas Holdings (UK)
Limited.
3 Amounts relate to restructuring provisions recognised in 2024 and reversals of restructuring provisions recognised during 2022.
Legal entity reported and constant currency results (continued)
2023
The
Hongkong Holding
and companies,
Shanghai HSBC HSBC Grupo shared
Banking Bank North Financiero service
Corpo- Middle America HSBC HSBC, Other centres and
HSBC UK HSBC ration East Holdings Bank S.A. trading intra-Group
Bank plc Bank plc Limited Limited Inc. Canada de C.V. entities1 eliminations Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Revenue2
Reported 13,405 9,289 31,899 2,425 3,863 1,966 3,313 4,729 (4,831) 66,058
Currency translation 391 150 (93) 1 — (28) (103) (1,567) 103 (1,146)
Constant currency 13,796 9,439 31,806 2,426 3,863 1,938 3,210 3,162 (4,728) 64,912
ECL
Reported (523) (212) (1,641) (90) (94) (46) (696) (279) 134 (3,447)
Currency translation (11) (1) — — — 1 34 166 (1) 188
Constant currency (534) (213) (1,641) (90) (94) (45) (662) (113) 133 (3,259)
Operating expenses
Reported (4,612) (6,386) (13,395) (1,096) (3,251) (1,049) (1,826) (2,635) 2,180 (32,070)
Currency translation (126) (99) 31 — — 16 55 796 (97) 576
Constant currency (4,738) (6,485) (13,364) (1,096) (3,251) (1,033) (1,771) (1,839) 2,083 (31,494)
Share of profit/(loss) in
associates and joint ventures
Reported — (52) (696) — — — 14 544 (3) (193)
Currency translation — (1) (61) — — — (1) — — (63)
Constant currency — (53) (757) — — — 13 544 (3) (256)
Profit/(loss) before tax
Reported 8,270 2,639 16,167 1,239 518 871 805 2,359 (2,520) 30,348
Currency translation 254 49 (123) 1 — (11) (15) (605) 5 (445)
Constant currency 8,524 2,688 16,044 1,240 518 860 790 1,754 (2,515) 29,903
Loans and advances to
customers (net)
Reported 270,208 95,750 455,315 20,072 54,829 — 26,410 15,951 — 938,535
Currency translation (4,407) (4,136) (6,200) (4) — — (4,904) (1,794) (1) (21,446)
Constant currency 265,801 91,614 449,115 20,068 54,829 — 21,506 14,157 (1) 917,089
Customer accounts
Reported 339,611 274,733 801,430 31,341 99,607 — 29,423 35,326 176 1,611,647
Currency translation (5,539) (9,425) (7,068) (12) — — (5,464) (4,527) 1 (32,034)
Constant currency 334,072 265,308 794,362 31,329 99,607 — 23,959 30,799 177 1,579,613
1 Other trading entities includes the results of entities located in Oman, Türkiye, Egypt and Saudi Arabia (including our share of the results of Saudi Awwal Bank)
which do not consolidate into HSBC Bank Middle East Limited. These entities had an aggregated impact on the Group’s reported profit before tax of $1,286m,
and constant currency profit before tax of $1,090m. Supplementary analysis is provided on page 120 to provide a fuller picture of the MENAT regional
performance.
2 Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges, also referred to as revenue.

[PAGE 117]

Legal entity results: notable items (continued)
2023
The Holding
Hongkong companies,
and HSBC HSBC shared
Shanghai Bank North Grupo service
Banking Middle America HSBC Financiero Other centres and
HSBC UK HSBC Corporation East Holdings Bank HSBC, S.A. trading intra-Group
Bank plc Bank plc Limited Limited Inc. Canada de C.V. entities eliminations Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Revenue
Disposals, acquisitions and
related costs1,2,3 1,591 (14) — — — — — — (279) 1,298
Fair value movements on
financial instruments4 — — — — — — — — 14 14
Restructuring and other
related costs — 361 — — — — — — (361) —
Disposal losses on Markets
Treasury repositioning (145) (94) (473) (20) (246) — — — 1 (977)
Operating expenses
Disposals, acquisitions and
related costs (45) (111) — — (11) (115) — — (39) (321)
Restructuring and other
related costs5 20 30 10 2 10 — 6 2 56 136
Impairment of interest in
associate6 — — (3,000) — — — — — — (3,000)
1 Includes the impacts of the sale of our retail banking operations in France.
2 Includes the gain of $1.6bn recognised in respect of the acquisition of SVB UK.
3 Includes fair value movements on the foreign exchange hedging of the proceeds from the sale of our banking business in Canada.
4 Fair value movements on non-qualifying hedges in HSBC Holdings.
5 Balances relate to reversals of restructuring provisions recognised during 2022.
6 Includes an impairment loss of $3.0bn recognised in respect of the Group’s investment in BoCom.
Selected countries/territories results (continued)
2023
Hong Mainland
UK1 Kong China US Mexico
$m $m $m $m $m
Revenue2
Reported 19,092 20,611 3,923 3,796 3,313
Currency translation 637 67 (64) — (103)
Constant currency 19,729 20,678 3,859 3,796 3,210
ECL
Reported (594) (1,529) (93) (94) (696)
Currency translation (14) (5) (2) — 34
Constant currency (608) (1,534) (95) (94) (662)
Operating expenses
Reported (12,485) (8,244) (2,713) (3,251) (1,826)
Currency translation (328) (27) 41 — 55
Constant currency (12,813) (8,271) (2,672) (3,251) (1,771)
Share of profit/(loss) in associates and joint ventures
Reported (53) 30 (746) — 14
Currency translation — — (61) — (1)
Constant currency (53) 30 (807) — 13
Profit before tax
Reported 5,960 10,868 371 451 805
Currency translation 295 35 (86) — (15)
Constant currency 6,255 10,903 285 451 790
Loans and advances to customers (net)
Reported 309,262 279,551 44,275 54,829 26,410
Currency translation (5,044) 1,663 (1,207) — (4,904)
Constant currency 304,218 281,214 43,068 54,829 21,506
Customer accounts
Reported 508,181 543,504 56,006 99,607 29,423
Currency translation (8,289) 3,233 (1,525) — (5,464)
Constant currency 499,892 546,737 54,481 99,607 23,959
1 UK includes HSBC UK Bank plc (ring-fenced bank), HSBC Bank plc (non-ring-fenced bank), the ultimate holding company, HSBC Holdings plc, and the separately
incorporated group of service companies (‘ServCo Group’).
2 Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges, also referred to as revenue.
Financial
review

[PAGE 118]

Legal entities
Selected countries/territories results: notable items (continued)
2023
Hong Mainland
UK1 Kong China US Mexico
$m $m $m $m $m
Revenue
Disposals, acquisitions and related costs2,3,4 1,272 — — — —
Fair value movements on financial instruments5 14 — — — —
Disposal losses on Markets Treasury repositioning (239) (473) — (246) —
Operating expenses
Disposals, acquisitions and related costs (71) (1) (5) (11) —
Restructuring and other related costs6 75 9 4 10 6
Impairment of interest in associate7 — — (3,000) — —
1 UK includes HSBC UK Bank plc (ring-fenced bank), HSBC Bank plc (non-ring-fenced bank), the ultimate holding company, HSBC Holdings plc, and the separately
incorporated group of service companies (‘ServCo Group’).
2 Includes the gain of $1.6bn recognised in respect of the acquisition of SVB UK.
3 Includes the impairment gain relating to the sale of our retail banking operations in France.
4 Includes fair value movements on the foreign exchange hedging of the proceeds from the sale of our banking business in Canada.
5 Fair value movements on non-qualifying hedges in HSBC Holdings.
6 Balances relates to reversals of restructuring provisions recognised during 2022.
7 Includes an impairment loss of $3.0bn recognised in respect of the Group’s investment in BoCom.
Legal entity reported and constant currency results
2022
The
Hongkong Holding
and companies,
Shanghai HSBC HSBC Grupo shared
Banking Bank North Financiero service
Corpo- Middle America HSBC HSBC, Other centres and
HSBC UK HSBC ration East Holdings Bank S.A. trading intra-Group
Bank plc Bank plc Limited Limited Inc. Canada de C.V. entities1 eliminations Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Revenue2
Reported 9,771 5,421 25,642 1,743 4,163 1,954 2,713 3,503 (4,290) 50,620
Currency translation 399 (30) (338) 3 — (96) 265 (1,235) (1) (1,033)
Constant currency 10,170 5,391 25,304 1,746 4,163 1,858 2,978 2,268 (4,291) 49,587
ECL
Reported (563) (292) (2,090) 21 (20) (84) (507) (61) 12 (3,584)
Currency translation (57) 8 2 — — 5 (46) 59 (2) (31)
Constant currency (620) (284) (2,088) 21 (20) (79) (553) (2) 10 (3,615)
Operating expenses
Reported (4,721) (6,486) (13,053) (1,036) (3,438) (1,038) (1,636) (2,361) 1,068 (32,701)
Currency translation (178) (177) 165 (1) — 51 (163) 792 (17) 472
Constant currency (4,899) (6,663) (12,888) (1,037) (3,438) (987) (1,799) (1,569) 1,051 (32,229)
Share of profit/(loss) in
associates and joint ventures
Reported — (38) 2,400 — — — 13 351 (3) 2,723
Currency translation — — (164) — — — — — — (164)
Constant currency — (38) 2,236 — — — 13 351 (3) 2,559
Profit/(loss) before tax
Reported 4,487 (1,395) 12,899 728 705 832 583 1,432 (3,213) 17,058
Currency translation 164 (199) (335) 2 — (40) 56 (384) (20) (756)
Constant currency 4,651 (1,594) 12,564 730 705 792 639 1,048 (3,233) 16,302
Loans and advances to
customers (net)
Reported 245,921 86,964 473,985 19,762 54,159 — 20,446 22,325 (1) 923,561
Currency translation 10,166 331 (8,248) 16 — — (1,318) (3,210) 1 (2,262)
Constant currency 256,087 87,295 465,737 19,778 54,159 — 19,128 19,115 — 921,299
Customer accounts
Reported 336,086 253,075 784,236 29,893 100,404 — 25,531 41,078 — 1,570,303
Currency translation 13,894 3,640 (9,033) 24 — — (1,645) (8,633) — (1,753)
Constant currency 349,980 256,715 775,203 29,917 100,404 — 23,886 32,445 — 1,568,550
1 Other trading entities includes the results of entities located in Oman, Türkiye, Egypt and Saudi Arabia (including our share of the results of Saudi Awwal Bank)
which do not consolidate into HSBC Bank Middle East Limited. These entities had an aggregated impact on the Group’s reported profit before tax of $997m and
constant currency profit before tax of $756m.
2 Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges, also referred to as revenue.

[PAGE 119]

Legal entity results: notable items (continued)
2022
The Holding
Hongkong companies,
and HSBC HSBC shared
Shanghai Bank North Grupo service
Banking Middle America HSBC Financiero Other centres and
HSBC UK HSBC Corporation East Holdings Bank HSBC, S.A. trading intra-Group
Bank plc Bank plc Limited Limited Inc. Canada de C.V. entities eliminations Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Revenue
Disposals, acquisitions and
related costs1 — (2,242) — — — — — — (495) (2,737)
Fair value movements on
financial instruments2 — — — — — — — — (618) (618)
Restructuring and other
related costs3 1 (278) 46 (13) 98 1 (17) — (85) (247)
Operating expenses
Disposals, acquisitions and
related costs — (18) — — — — — — — (18)
Restructuring and other
related costs (521) (656) (741) (64) (421) (87) (115) (150) (127) (2,882)
1 Includes losses from classifying businesses as held for sale as part of a broader restructuring of our European business, of which $2.3bn (inclusive of $0.4bn in
goodwill impairments) relates to the sale of the retail banking operations in France. Held-for-sale classification for the sale of the retail banking operations in
France was reversed in 1Q23 ($2.1bn loss reversed) and reinstated in 4Q23 ($2.0bn loss reinstated).
2 Fair value movements on non-qualifying hedges in HSBC Holdings.
3 Comprises gains and losses relating to the business update in February 2020, including losses associated with the RWA reduction programme.
Selected countries/territories results (continued)
2022
Hong Mainland
UK1 Kong China US Mexico
$m $m $m $m $m
Revenue2
Reported 17,268 15,712 4,104 4,107 2,713
Currency translation 746 60 (272) — 265
Constant currency 18,014 15,772 3,832 4,107 2,978
ECL
Reported (712) (1,683) (326) (20) (507)
Currency translation (54) (8) 21 — (46)
Constant currency (766) (1,691) (305) (20) (553)
Operating expenses
Reported (13,232) (7,935) (2,757) (3,438) (1,636)
Currency translation (504) (26) 178 — (163)
Constant currency (13,736) (7,961) (2,579) (3,438) (1,799)
Share of profit/(loss) in associates and joint ventures
Reported (41) 5 2,386 — 12
Currency translation — — (163) — 1
Constant currency (41) 5 2,223 — 13
Profit before tax
Reported 3,283 6,099 3,407 649 582
Currency translation 188 26 (236) — 57
Constant currency 3,471 6,125 3,171 649 639
Loans and advances to customers (net)
Reported 286,032 294,580 50,481 54,159 20,446
Currency translation 11,825 1,122 (2,811) — (1,318)
Constant currency 297,857 295,702 47,670 54,159 19,128
Customer accounts
Reported 493,028 542,543 56,948 100,404 25,531
Currency translation 20,382 2,068 (3,169) — (1,645)
Constant currency 513,410 544,611 53,779 100,404 23,886
1 UK includes HSBC UK Bank plc (ring-fenced bank), HSBC Bank plc (non-ring-fenced bank), the ultimate holding company, HSBC Holdings plc, and the separately
incorporated group of service companies (‘ServCo Group’).
2 Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges, also referred to as revenue.
Financial
review

[PAGE 120]

Legal entities
Selected countries/territories results: notable items (continued)
2022
Hong Mainland
UK1 Kong China US Mexico
$m $m $m $m $m
Revenue
Disposals, acquisitions and related costs (60) — — — —
Fair value movements on financial instruments2 (617) — — — —
Restructuring and other related costs3 407 (124) 71 99 (17)
Operating expenses
Restructuring and other related costs (1,741) (393) (70) (424) (115)
1 UK includes HSBC UK Bank plc (ring-fenced bank), HSBC Bank plc (non-ring-fenced bank), the ultimate holding company, HSBC Holdings plc, and the separately
incorporated group of service companies (‘ServCo Group’).
2 Fair value movements on non-qualifying hedges in HSBC Holdings.
3 Comprises gains and losses relating to the business update in February 2022, including losses associated with RWA reduction commitments.
Analysis by country/territory
Profit/(loss) before tax by country/territory within global businesses
2024
Wealth and Global
Personal Commercial Banking and Corporate
Banking Banking Markets Centre Total
$m $m $m $m $m
UK1 2,487 3,446 12 845 6,790
– of which: HSBC UK Bank plc (ring-fenced bank) 2,628 4,367 146 72 7,213
– of which: HSBC Bank plc (non-ring-fenced bank) 534 97 657 (359) 929
– of which: Holdings and other (675) (1,018) (791) 1,132 (1,352)
France 60 196 127 (153) 230
Germany 27 45 137 5 214
Hong Kong 7,453 3,212 1,704 (482) 11,887
Australia 141 378 99 (9) 609
India 96 448 875 269 1,688
Indonesia 7 156 63 (5) 221
Mainland China2 (167) 235 678 2,481 3,227
Malaysia 143 155 219 (3) 514
Singapore 572 376 448 (21) 1,375
Taiwan 113 70 223 (8) 398
Egypt 123 145 355 (16) 607
UAE 371 228 355 (83) 871
Saudi Arabia3 — — 112 596 708
US 74 578 331 (198) 785
Canada4 71 126 26 4,503 4,726
Mexico 185 529 13 3 730
Other5 426 1,537 1,286 (6,520) (3,271)
Year ended 31 Dec 2024 12,182 11,860 7,063 1,204 32,309
1 UK includes results from the ultimate holding company, HSBC Holdings plc, and the separately incorporated group of service companies (‘ServCo Group’).
2 Includes our share of the profits of our associate, Bank of Communications Co., Limited.
3 Includes the results of HSBC Saudi Arabia and our share of the profits of our associate, Saudi Awwal Bank.
4 Corporate Centre includes a gain of $4.5bn on the sale of our banking business in Canada excluding the fair value movements on the foreign exchange hedging
of the sale which is booked in HSBC Overseas Holdings (UK) Limited.
5 Corporate Centre includes the profit and loss impact of inter-company debt eliminations of $(269)m and a loss of $6.2bn relating to the sale of our business in
Argentina.

[PAGE 121]

Profit/(loss) before tax by country/territory within global businesses (continued)
2023
Wealth and Global
Personal Commercial Banking Corporate
Banking Banking and Markets Centre Total
$m $m $m $m $m
UK1 2,415 4,437 (692) (200) 5,960
– of which: HSBC UK Bank plc (ring-fenced bank) 2,754 5,282 144 90 8,270
– of which: HSBC Bank plc (non-ring-fenced bank) 396 295 121 177 989
– of which: Holdings and other (735) (1,140) (957) (467) (3,299)
France (35) 235 128 10 338
Germany 44 144 128 4 320
Hong Kong 6,808 2,970 1,394 (304) 10,868
Australia 177 319 85 (15) 566
India 56 398 774 289 1,517
Indonesia 23 124 68 (7) 208
Mainland China2 (90) 339 662 (540) 371
Malaysia 111 158 219 (21) 467
Singapore 233 436 444 (31) 1,082
Taiwan 99 72 198 (7) 362
Egypt 141 98 303 (11) 531
UAE 387 212 377 (83) 893
Saudi Arabia3 — — 118 539 657
US 225 513 111 (398) 451
Canada 293 561 120 (96) 878
Mexico 317 504 15 (31) 805
Other4 340 1,760 1,472 502 4,074
Year ended 31 Dec 2023 11,544 13,280 5,924 (400) 30,348
1 UK includes results from the ultimate holding company, HSBC Holdings plc, and the separately incorporated group of service companies (‘ServCo Group’).
2 Includes our share of the profits of our associate, Bank of Communications Co., Limited.
3 Includes the results of HSBC Saudi Arabia and our share of the profits of our associate, Saudi Awwal Bank.
4 Corporate Centre includes the profit and loss impact of inter-company debt eliminations of $571m.
2022
Wealth and Global
Personal Commercial Banking Corporate
Banking Banking and Markets Centre Total
$m $m $m $m $m
UK1 1,764 2,094 (534) (41) 3,283
– of which: HSBC UK Bank plc (ring-fenced bank) 2,112 2,662 143 (430) 4,487
– of which: HSBC Bank plc (non-ring fenced bank) 294 315 141 (473) 277
– of which: Holdings and other (642) (883) (818) 862 (1,481)
France2 (2,248) 210 81 (231) (2,188)
Germany 17 8 133 (147) 11
Hong Kong 4,435 1,278 955 (568) 6,100
Australia 147 180 157 (36) 448
India 45 304 622 306 1,277
Indonesia 4 71 100 (8) 167
Mainland China3 (100) 303 526 2,678 3,407
Malaysia 110 89 219 (36) 382
Singapore 218 255 351 (77) 747
Taiwan 36 43 137 (17) 199
Egypt 101 76 194 (4) 367
UAE 128 107 320 (86) 469
Saudi Arabia4 30 — 94 345 469
US 209 557 270 (387) 649
Canada 243 548 140 (89) 842
Mexico 241 414 39 (112) 582
Other5 208 1,056 1,115 (2,532) (153)
Year ended 31 Dec 2022 5,588 7,593 4,919 (1,042) 17,058
1 UK includes results from the ultimate holding company, HSBC Holdings plc, and the separately incorporated group of service companies (‘ServCo Group’).
2 Includes the impact of goodwill impairment of $425m as a result of the reclassification of our retail banking operations in France to held for sale. At 31 December
2022, HSBC’s cash-generating units were based on geographical regions, sub-divided by global businesses.
3 Includes our share of the profits of our associate, Bank of Communications Co., Limited.
4 Includes the results of HSBC Saudi Arabia and our share of the profits of our associate, Saudi Awwal Bank.
5 Corporate Centre includes the profit and loss impact of inter-company debt eliminations of $1,850m.
Financial
review

[PAGE 122]

Reconciliation of alternative performance measures
Middle East, North Africa and Türkiye supplementary information
The following tables show the results of our Middle East, North Africa and Türkiye business operations on a regional basis (including results of
all the legal entities operating in the region and our share of the results of Saudi Awwal Bank). They also show the profit before tax of each of
the global businesses.
Middle East, North Africa and Türkiye regional performance
2024 2023
$m $m
Revenue1 3,852 3,688
Change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges (222) (133)
Operating expenses (1,695) (1,592)
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures 596 538
Profit before tax 2,531 2,501
Loans and advances to customers (net) 22,975 22,766
Customer accounts 42,434 40,708
1 Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges, also referred to as revenue.
Profit before tax by global business
2024 2023
$m $m
Wealth and Personal Banking 585 612
Commercial Banking 368 400
Global Banking and Markets 1,091 1,104
Corporate Centre 487 385
Total 2,531 2,501
Reconciliation of alternative
performance measures
Use of alternative performance
Contents
measures
120 Use of alternative performance measures
121 Alternative performance measure definitions Our reported results are prepared in accordance with IFRS Accounting
122 Constant currency revenue and profit before tax excluding notable Standards as detailed in our financial statements starting on page 341.
items and strategic transactions
As described on page 86, we use a combination of reported and
122 Return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity and return on average
alternative performance measures, including those derived from our
tangible equity
reported results that eliminate factors that distort year-on-year
123 Net asset value and tangible net asset value per ordinary share
comparisons. These are considered alternative performance
123 Post-tax return and average total shareholders’ equity on average total measures (non-GAAP financial measures).
assets
124 Expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges as % of The following information details the adjustments made to the
average gross loans and advances to customers reported results and the calculation of other alternative performance
measures. All alternative performance measures are reconciled to the
124 Target basis operating expenses
closest reported performance measure.
125 Basic earnings per share excluding material notable items and related
impacts On 1 January 2023, HSBC adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’. As
125 Multi-jurisdictional client revenue required by the standard, the Group applied the requirements
retrospectively with comparative data previously published under
IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’ restated from the 1 January 2022
transition date.
In addition to the alternative performance measures set out in this
section, another alternative performance measure in relation to the
Group’s insurance manufacturing operations is set out on pages 105
to 107.

[PAGE 123]

Alternative performance measure definitions
Alternative performance measure Definition
Reported revenue excluding notable items Reported revenue after excluding notable items reported under revenue
Reported profit before tax after excluding notable items reported under revenue
Reported profit before tax excluding notable items
less notable items reported under operating expenses
Constant currency revenue excluding notable items1 Reported revenue excluding notab tr le a n it s e la m ti s o n a 2 nd the impact of foreign exchange
Constant currency profit before tax excluding notable Reported profit before tax excluding notable items and the impact of foreign
items1 exchange translation2
Constant currency revenue excluding notable items Reported revenue excluding notable items, strategic transactions and the impact
and strategic transactions1 of foreign exchange translation3
Constant currency profit before tax excluding notable Reported profit before tax excluding notable items, strategic transactions and the
items and strategic transactions1 impact of foreign exchange translation3
Profit attributable to the ordinary shareholders
Return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity (‘RoE’)
Average ordinary shareholders’ equity
Profit attributable to the ordinary shareholders, excluding impairment
of goodwill and other intangible assets
Return on average tangible equity (‘RoTE‘)
Average ordinary shareholders’ equity adjusted for goodwill and intangibles
Profit attributable to the ordinary shareholders, excluding impairment of goodwill
and other intangible assets and notable items2
Return on average tangible equity (‘RoTE‘) excluding
notable items
Average ordinary shareholders’ equity adjusted for goodwill
and intangibles and notable items2
Total ordinary shareholders’ equity4
Net asset value per ordinary share
Basic number of ordinary shares in issue after deducting own shares held
Tangible ordinary shareholders’ equity5
Tangible net asset value per ordinary share
Basic number of ordinary shares in issue after deducting own shares held
Profit after tax
Post-tax return on average total assets
Average total assets
Average total shareholders’ equity
Average total shareholders’ equity on average total
assets
Average total assets
Expected credit losses and other credit impairment Annualised constant currency ECL6
charges (‘ECL’) as % of average gross loans and
advances to customers Constant currency average gross loans and advances to customers6
Annualised constant currency ECL6
Expected credit losses and other credit impairment
charges (‘ECL’) as % of average gross loans and
Constant currency average gross loans and advances to customers,
advances to customers, including held for sale including held for sale6
Reported operating expenses excluding notable items, foreign exchange
Target basis operating expenses translation and other excluded items7
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders excluding material notable
items and related impacts8
Basic earnings per share excluding material notable
items and related impacts
Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding after deducting own
shares held
Total client revenue we generate from clients that hold a relationship with
Multi-jurisdictional client revenue
us that generates revenue in more than one market
1 Constant currency performance is computed by adjusting reported results for the effects of foreign currency translation differences, which distort period-on-
period comparisons.
2 For details of notable items, see ‘Supplementary financial information‘ on page 99.
3 For details of strategic transactions, see ‘Strategic transactions supplementary analysis‘ on page 102.
4 Total ordinary shareholders’ equity is total shareholders‘ equity less non-cumulative preference shares and capital securities.
5 Tangible ordinary shareholders’ equity is total ordinary shareholders’ equity excluding goodwill and other intangible assets (net of deferred tax).
6 The constant currency numbers are derived by adjusting reported ECL and average loans and advances to customers for the effects of foreign currency
translation differences.
7 Other excluded items includes the impact of re-translating comparative period financial information at the latest rates of foreign exchange in hyperinflationary
economies, which we consider to be outside of our control, and the impact of the sale of our retail banking operations in France and banking business in Canada.
8 For details of material notable items and related impacts, that are included in the calculation of Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders excluding material
notable items and related impacts, see page 125.
Financial
review

[PAGE 124]

Reconciliation of alternative performance measures
Constant currency revenue and profit before tax excluding notable items and strategic transactions
Year ended
2024 2023 2022
$m $m $m
Revenue
Reported 65,854 66,058 50,620
Notable items 1,580 (335) 3,602
Reported revenue excluding notable items 67,434 65,723 54,222
Currency translation1 (1,234) (839)
Constant currency revenue excluding notable items 67,434 64,489 53,383
Constant currency impact of strategic transactions (distorting impact of operating results between periods)2 (178) (1,446) N/A
Constant currency revenue excluding notable items and strategic transactions 67,256 63,043 N/A
Profit before tax
Reported 32,309 30,348 17,058
Notable items 1,813 2,850 6,502
Reported profit before tax excluding notable items 34,122 33,198 23,560
Currency translation1 (518) (503)
Constant currency profit before tax excluding notable items 34,122 32,680 23,057
Constant currency impact of strategic transactions (distorting impact of operating results between periods)2 (85) (463) N/A
Constant currency profit before tax excluding notable items and strategic transactions 34,037 32,217 N/A
1 Currency translation on the reported balance excluding currency translation on notable items.
2 For more details of strategic transactions, please refer to page 102.
Return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity, return on average tangible equity and return on average tangible equity excluding notable
items
2024 2023 2022
$m $m $m
Profit after tax
Profit attributable to the ordinary shareholders of the parent company 22,917 22,432 14,346
Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets (net of tax) 118 43 535
Profit attributable to the ordinary shareholders, excluding goodwill and other
intangible assets impairment 23,035 22,475 14,881
Impact of notable items1 1,588 2,173 2,750
Profit attributable to the ordinary shareholders, excluding goodwill, other intangible assets impairment
and notable items 24,623 24,648 17,631
Equity
Average total shareholders’ equity 187,507 184,029 180,263
Effect of average preference shares and other equity instruments (18,480) (18,794) (21,202)
Average ordinary shareholders’ equity 169,027 165,235 159,061
Effect of goodwill and other intangibles (net of deferred tax) (11,626) (11,480) (10,786)
Average tangible equity 157,401 153,755 148,275
Average impact of notable items (3,322) (1,162) 1,565
Average tangible equity excluding notable items 154,079 152,593 149,840
% % %
Ratio
Return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity 13.6 13.6 9.0
Return on average tangible equity 14.6 14.6 10.0
Return on average tangible equity excluding notable items 16.0 16.2 11.8
1 For details of notable items please refer to Supplementary financial information on page 99.
From 1 January 2024, we have revised the adjustments made to items in our other income statement disclosures. Comparatives have
return on average tangible equity (‘RoTE’). Prior to this, we adjusted been re-presented on the revised basis and we no longer disclose
RoTE for the impact of strategic transactions and the impairment of RoTE excluding strategic transactions and the impairment of BoCom.
our investment in Bank of Communications Co., Limited (‘BoCom’), We will now target a RoTE in the mid-teens in each of the three years
whereas from 1 January 2024 we have excluded all notable items. from 2025 to 2027 excluding the impact of notable items.
This was intended to improve alignment with the treatment of notable

[PAGE 125]

The following table details the adjustments made to reported results by global business:
Return on average tangible equity by global business
Year ended 31 Dec 2024
Wealth and Global
Personal Commercial Banking and Corporate
Banking Banking Markets Centre Total
$m $m $m $m $m
Profit before tax 12,182 11,860 7,063 1,204 32,309
Tax expense (2,173) (2,834) (1,573) (730) (7,310)
Profit after tax 10,009 9,026 5,490 474 24,999
Less attributable to: preference shareholders, other equity holders, non-controlling
interests (824) (471) (520) (267) (2,082)
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent company 9,185 8,555 4,970 207 22,917
Other adjustments (110) 314 (202) 116 118
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 9,075 8,869 4,768 323 23,035
Average tangible shareholders’ equity 31,267 44,357 36,622 45,155 157,401
Return on average tangible equity (%) 29.0 20.0 13.0 0.7 14.6
Year ended 31 Dec 2023
Profit before tax 11,544 13,280 5,924 (400) 30,348
Tax expense (2,141) (2,945) (1,165) 462 (5,789)
Profit after tax 9,403 10,335 4,759 62 24,559
Less attributable to: preference shareholders, other equity holders, non-controlling
interests (828) (485) (588) (226) (2,127)
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent company 8,575 9,850 4,171 (164) 22,432
Other adjustments (221) 364 168 (268) 43
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 8,354 10,214 4,339 (432) 22,475
Average tangible shareholders’ equity 29,352 43,687 38,036 42,680 153,755
Return on average tangible equity (%) 28.5 23.4 11.4 (1.0) 14.6
Net asset value and tangible net asset value per ordinary share
2024 2023 2022
$m $m $m
Total shareholders’ equity 184,973 185,329 177,833
Preference shares and other equity instruments (19,070) (17,719) (19,746)
Total ordinary shareholders’ equity 165,903 167,610 158,087
Goodwill, PVIF and intangible assets (net of deferred tax) (11,608) (11,900) (11,160)
Tangible ordinary shareholders’ equity 154,295 155,710 146,927
Basic number of $0.50 ordinary shares outstanding after deducting own shares held 17,918 19,006 19,739
Value per share $ $ $
Net asset value per ordinary share 9.26 8.82 8.01
Tangible net asset value per ordinary share 8.61 8.19 7.44
Post-tax return and average total shareholders’ equity on average total assets
2024 2023 2022
$m $m $m
Profit after tax 24,999 24,559 16,249
Average total shareholders’ equity 187,507 184,029 180,263
Average total assets 3,062,474 3,059,887 3,017,495
Ratio % % %
Post-tax return on average total assets 0.8 0.8 0.5
Average total shareholders’ equity to average total assets 6.12 6.01 5.97
Financial
review

[PAGE 126]

Reconciliation of alternative performance measures
Expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges as % of average gross loans and advances to customers and expected credit
losses and other credit impairment charges as % of average gross loans and advances to customers, including held for sale
2024 2023 2022
$m $m $m
Expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges (‘ECL’) (3,414) (3,447) (3,584)
Currency translation — 188 (31)
Constant currency (3,414) (3,259) (3,615)
Average gross loans and advances to customers 952,484 955,585 1,014,148
Currency translation (16,140) (10,586) (17,751)
Constant currency 936,344 944,999 996,397
Average gross loans and advances to customers, including held for sale 968,785 1,020,992 1,035,678
Currency translation (17,394) (14,752) (18,233)
Constant currency 951,391 1,006,240 1,017,445
Ratio % % %
Expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges as % of average gross loans and advances to
customers 0.36 0.34 0.36
Expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges as % of average gross loans and advances to
customers, including held for sale 0.36 0.32 0.36
Target basis operating expenses
Target basis operating expenses for 2024 was computed by excluding Our target basis operating expenses for 2025 excludes the direct cost
the direct cost impact of our retail banking operations in France and impact of the business disposals in Canada and Argentina, notable
Canada banking business disposals from the 2023 baseline. It is items and the impact of retranslating the prior year results of
measured on a constant currency basis and excludes notable items hyperinflationary economies at constant currency.
and the impact of retranslating the prior year results of
Our cost target includes the impact of simplification-related saves
hyperinflationary economies at constant currency, which we consider
associated with our announced reorganisation, see page 103, which
to be outside of our control. We consider target basis operating
aims to generate approximately $0.3bn of cost reductions in 2025,
expenses to provide useful information to investors by quantifying
with a commitment to an annualised reduction of $1.5bn in our cost
and excluding the notable items that management considered when
base expected by the end of 2026. To deliver these reductions, we
setting and assessing cost-related targets. In 2024, we targeted
plan to incur severance and other up-front costs of $1.8bn over 2025
operating expenses growth of approximately 5% compared with
and 2026, which will be classified as notable items.
2023. This target reflected our business plan for 2024, which included
an increase in staff compensation, higher spend and investment in
We do not reconcile our forward target basis operating expenses
technology for growth and efficiency, in part mitigated by cost savings
guidance to the reported operating expenses.
from actions taken during 2023. We are targeting growth in target
basis operating expenses of approximately 3% in 2025 compared
with 2024.
Target basis operating expenses
2024 2023
$m $m
Reported operating expenses 33,043 32,070
Notable items (233) (185)
– disposals, acquisitions and related costs (199) (321)
– restructuring and other related costs1 (34) 136
Currency translation2 (577)
Excluding the constant currency impact of the sale of our retail banking operations
in France and banking business in Canada3 (162) (976)
Excluding the impact of retranslating prior year costs of hyperinflationary economies at a constant currency foreign exchange rate 742
Target basis operating expenses 32,648 31,074
1 Amounts relate to restructuring provisions recognised in 2024 and reversals of restructuring provisions recognised during 2022.
2 Currency translation on reported operating expenses, excluding currency translation on notable items.
3 This represents the business as usual costs which are not classified as notable items relating to our retail banking operations in France and banking business in
Canada, on a constant currency basis. This does not include the disposal costs which relate to these transactions.

[PAGE 127]

Basic earnings per share excluding material notable items and related impacts
Basic earnings per share excluding material notable items and related impacts
2024 2023
$m $m
Profit attributable to shareholders of company 23,979 23,533
Coupon payable on capital securities classified as equity (1,062) (1,101)
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of company 22,917 22,432
Impairment of interest in associate1 — 3,000
Gain on acquisition of SVB UK (5) (1,549)
Impact of the sale of our retail banking operations in France (56) 108
Impact of the sale of our banking business in Canada2 (4,963) (311)
Impact of the sale of our business in Argentina 6,161 —
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of company excluding material notable items and related impacts 24,054 23,680
Number of shares
Weighted average basic number of ordinary shares (millions) after deducting own shares held 18,357 19,478
Basic earnings per share ($) 1.25 1.15
Basic earnings per share excluding material notable items and related impacts ($) 1.31 1.22
Dividend per ordinary share (in respect of the period) ($)3 0.87 0.61
Dividend payout ratio (%) (dividend per ordinary share divided by basic earnings per share excluding material notable items and
related impacts) 50% 50%
1 Represents an impairment loss of $3bn recognised in respect of the Group’s investment in BoCom in 2023. See Note 18 on page 402.
2 Represents gain on sale of business in Canada recognised on completion, inclusive of the earnings recognised by the banking business from 30 June 2022, the
recycling of losses in foreign currency translation reserves and other reserves, and gain on the foreign exchange hedging of the sale proceeds.
3 In 2024, dividend per share includes the special dividend of $0.21 per ordinary share arising from the proceeds of the sale of our banking business in Canada to
Royal Bank of Canada.
Material notable items are a subset of notable items. Material notable operations in France, the sale of our banking business in Canada, the
items are components of our income statement that management gain following the acquisition of SVB UK and the impairment of our
would consider as outside the normal course of business and investment in BoCom. In determining this measure, we also excluded
generally non-recurring in nature, which are excluded from our HSBC Bank Canada‘s financial results from the 30 June 2022 net
dividend payout ratio calculation and our earnings per share measure, asset reference date until completion of the sale, as the gain on sale
along with related impacts. Categorisation as a material notable item was recognised through a combination of the consolidation of HSBC
is dependent on the nature of each item in conjunction with the Bank Canada‘s results in the Group‘s results since this date, and the
financial impact on the Group’s income statement. remaining gain on sale recognised at completion. For the sale of our
business in Argentina, between signing and closing, the loss on sale
Related impacts include those items that do not qualify for
varied by changes in the net asset value of the disposed business and
designation as notable items but whose adjustment is considered by
associated hyperinflation and foreign currency translation, and in the
management to be appropriate for the purposes of determining the
fair value of consideration including price adjustments and migration
basis for our dividend payout ratio calculation.
costs. There were no additional related impacts identified, and the
ongoing profits from HSBC Argentina were not excluded from our
Material notable items in 2024 and comparative periods included the
basic earnings per share excluding material notable items and related
sale of our business in Argentina, the sale of our retail banking
impacts.
Multi-jurisdictional client revenue
Multi-jurisdictional client revenue is a financial metric we use to Multi-jurisdictional client revenue is a component of wholesale client
assess our ability to drive value from our international network. revenue and represents the total client revenue we generate from
multi-jurisdictional clients. Wholesale client revenue is derived by
In our wholesale businesses, we identify a client as multi-jurisdictional
excluding from CMB and GBM reported revenue the revenue we
if they hold a relationship with us that generates revenue in any
generate from client facilitation in Fixed Income and Equities, as well
market outside of where the primary relationship is managed. A client
as other non-client revenue. In 2023, we also excluded the gain on
is defined as a mastergroup (HSBC’s own client groupings) that
the acquisition of SVB UK.
includes both the parent and, where relevant, any subsidiaries.
Wholesale multi-jurisdictional client revenue
2024 2023
$bn $bn
CMB and GBM revenue 39.1 39.0
Allocated revenue and other1 (1.3) 0.9
Client facilitation in Fixed Income and Equities (5.6) (4.8)
Gain on acquisition of SVB UK — (1.6)
Wholesale client revenue 32.3 33.5
– clients banked in multiple jurisdictions (‘multi-jurisdictional’) 20.0 20.4
– domestic only clients 12.3 13.1
1 Including allocations of Market Treasury revenue, HSBC Holdings interest expense and hyperinflationary accounting adjustments, and interest earned on capital
held in the global businesses.
Financial
review

[PAGE 128]

Risk
review
Our risk review outlines our approach to risk 127 Our approach to risk
management, how we identify and monitor top 131 Top and emerging risks
and emerging risks, and the actions we take to 137 Our material banking risks
139 Credit risk
mitigate them. In addition, it explains our
200 Treasury risk
material banking risks, including how we
216 Market risk
manage capital.
219 Climate risk
22 Resilience risk
8
2 Regulatory compliance risk
29
2 Financial crime risk
29
23 Model risk
0
23 Insurance manufacturing operations risk
1
Bangkok, Thailand, 1990s. Customer Service Desk.

[PAGE 129]

Our approach to risk
Our risk appetite
Our risk appetite defines the level and types of risk that we are willing At a Group level, performance against the RAS is reported to the
to take, while informing the financial planning process and guiding Group Risk Management Meeting alongside key risk indicators to
strategic decision making. Our risk appetite is defined as the support targeted insight and discussion of breaches of risk appetite
aggregate level of risk that we are comfortable to take to achieve our and any associated mitigating actions. This reporting allows risks to
strategic objectives. Risk appetite also provides a mechanism for non- be promptly identified and mitigated, and informs risk-adjusted
executive directors and executive directors to collectively establish remuneration to drive a strong risk culture.
the Group’s willingness to engage in certain activities and assess
Coverage of each principal subsidiary and material operating entity is
these activities.
monitored through a RAS, which helps ensure they remain aligned
Enterprise-wide application with the Group’s RAS. Each RAS and business activity is guided and
underpinned by qualitative principles and/or quantitative metrics.
Our risk appetite is expressed holistically through various risk
management mechanisms and activities, in both quantitative and
Risk management
qualitative terms. The Group Risk and Compliance function carried out
a review in 2024, which led to enhancements to our Global Risk
We recognise that the primary role of risk management is to help
Appetite Framework to help ensure it remains aligned to industry best
protect our customers, business, colleagues, shareholders and the
practices, regulatory expectations and our strategic goals. Our Global
communities that we serve, while ensuring we are able to support
Risk Appetite Framework continues to evolve and expand its scope as
our strategy and provide sustainable growth. This is supported
part of our periodic review process.
through our three lines of defence model described on page 128.
The Board reviews and approves the Group’s risk appetite regularly to
In addition, we recognise the importance of a strong culture, which
make sure it remains fit for purpose. The Group’s risk appetite is
refers to our shared attitudes, beliefs, values and standards that
considered, developed, and enhanced through the following
shape behaviours including those related to risk awareness, risk
principles:
taking and risk management. All our people are responsible for the
– alignment with our strategy, purpose, values, external risk management of risk, with ultimate supervisory oversight residing with
environment, reputational and customer needs; the Board.
– compliance with applicable laws, regulations and regulatory The implementation of our business strategy remains a key focus. As
priorities; we implement change initiatives, we actively manage the execution
– forward-looking insights into future risk exposure; risks. We also perform periodic risk assessments, including against
strategies, to help ensure retention of key personnel for our continued
– sufficiency of available capital, liquidity and balance sheet leverage safe operation.
to absorb the risks;
We aim to use a comprehensive risk management approach across
– capacity and capabilities of people to manage the risk landscape;
the organisation and across all risk types, underpinned by our culture
– functionality, capacity and resilience of available systems to and values. This is outlined in our risk management framework,
manage the risk landscape; including the key principles and practices that we employ in managing
– effectiveness of the applicable control environment to mitigate material risks, both financial and non-financial. The framework fosters
risk; and continuous monitoring and promotes risk awareness and a positive
risk culture. It encourages a sound operational and strategic decision-
– internally and externally disclosed commitments.
making and escalation process. It also supports a consistent approach
to identifying, assessing, managing and reporting the risks we accept
We formally articulate our risk appetite through our Risk Appetite
and incur in our activities, with clear accountabilities. We actively
Statement (‘RAS’). Setting out our risk appetite helps ensure that we
review and enhance our risk management framework and our
agree a suitable level of risk for our strategy. In this way, risk appetite
approach to managing risk.
informs our financial planning process and helps senior management
to allocate capital to business activities, services and products.
Group Risk and Compliance is independent from the global
businesses, including our sales and trading functions. It provides
challenge, oversight and appropriate balance in risk/return decisions.
Risk
review

[PAGE 130]

Risk review
Our risk management framework
The following diagram and descriptions summarise key aspects of the risk management framework, including governance, structure, risk
management tools and our culture, which together help align employee behaviour with risk appetite.
Key components of our risk management framework
HSBC values and risk culture
The Board approves the Group’s risk appetite, plans and performance
Non-executive risk governance targets. It sets the ‘tone from the top’ and is advised by the Group Risk
Committee (see page 251).
Risk governance
Our executive risk governance structure is responsible for the enterprise-
Executive risk governance wide management of all risks, including key policies and frameworks for the
management of risk within the Group (see pages 128 and 137).
Our ‘three lines of defence’ model defines roles and responsibilities for risk
Roles and
Three lines of defence model management. An independent Group Risk and Compliance function helps
responsibilities
ensure the necessary balance in risk/return decisions (see page 128).
Risk appetite
Enterprise-wide risk management tools The Group has processes in place to identify, assess, monitor, manage and
report risks to help ensure we remain within our risk appetite and to
Processes and tools Active risk management: identification/assessment,
anticipate, prevent, respond to, and recover from, significant operational
monitoring, management and reporting
disruptions.
Operational resilience
Policies and procedures define the minimum requirements for the controls
Policies and procedures
required to manage our risks.
Operational and resilience risk management defines minimum standards
Internal controls Control activities
and processes for managing operational risks and internal controls.
The Group has systems and processes that support the identification,
Systems and infrastructure
capture and exchange of information to support risk management activities.
Risk governance
The Board has ultimate supervisory responsibility for the effective Day-to-day responsibility for risk management is delegated to senior
management of risk and approves our risk appetite. managers with individual accountability for decision making. All our
people have a role to play in risk management. These roles are
The Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, supported by members
defined using the three lines of defence model, which takes into
of the Group Risk Management Meeting, holds executive
account our business and functional structures, including regulatory
accountability for the ongoing monitoring, assessment and
compliance and financial crime, as described in the following
management of the risk environment and the effectiveness of the risk
commentary, ‘Our responsibilities’.
management framework.
We use a defined executive risk governance structure to help enable
The Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer is also responsible for
appropriate oversight and accountability of risk, which facilitates
the oversight of reputational risk, with the support of the Group
reporting and escalation to the Group Risk Management Meeting.
Reputational Risk Committee. The Group Reputational Risk
This structure is summarised in the following table.
Committee considers matters arising from customers, transactions
and third parties that either present a serious potential reputational
risk to the Group or merit a Group-led decision to help enable a
consistent risk management approach across the regions, global
businesses and global functions. Further details can be found under
the ‘Reputational risk’ section of www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-
and-responsible-business/managing-risk.
Governance structure for the management of risk and compliance
Authority Membership Responsibilities include:
Group Risk Management Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer – Supporting the Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer in exercising Board-delegated
Meeting Group Chief Legal Officer risk management authority
Group CEO – Overseeing the implementation of risk appetite and the risk management framework
Group CFO
– Forward-looking assessment of the risk environment, analysing possible risk impacts
Group Head of Financial Crime and Group
and taking appropriate action
Money Laundering Reporting Officer
All other Group Executive Committee – Monitoring all categories of risk and determining appropriate mitigating action
members – Promoting a supportive Group culture in relation to risk management and conduct
Group Risk and Compliance Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer – Supporting the Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer in providing strategic
Executive Committee Chief risk and compliance officers of direction for the Group Risk and Compliance function, setting priorities and providing
HSBC’s global businesses oversight
Regional chief risk and compliance – Overseeing a consistent approach to accountability for, and mitigation of, risk and
officers and chief risk officers compliance across the Group
Heads of Global Risk and Compliance
sub-functions

[PAGE 131]

Governance structure for the management of risk and compliance (continued)
Authority Membership Responsibilities include:
Global business/regional risk Global business/regional chief risk and – Supporting the Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer in exercising Board-delegated
management meetings compliance officers and chief risk officers risk management authority
Global business/regional chief executive – Forward-looking assessment of the risk environment
officers
– Implementation of risk appetite and the risk management framework
Global business/regional chief financial
officers – Monitoring all categories of risk and overseeing appropriate mitigating actions
Global business/regional heads of global – Embedding a supportive culture in relation to risk management and controls
functions
The Board committees with responsibility for oversight of risk-related matters are set out on page 249.
Treasury risks are the responsibility of the Group Executive Committee and the Group Risk Committee. Global Treasury actively manages these risks, supported
by the Holdings Asset and Liability Management Committee (‘ALCO’) and local ALCOs, overseen by Treasury Risk Management and the Group Risk
Management Meeting. Further details on treasury risk management are set out on page 200.
Our responsibilities
All our people are responsible for identifying and managing risk within Stress testing and recovery planning
the scope of their roles. Roles are defined using the three lines of
Our stress testing programme assesses our capital and liquidity
defence model, which takes into account our business and functional
strength through an examination of our resilience to external shocks,
structures as described below.
and forms part of our risk management and capital and liquidity
Three lines of defence planning. As well as undertaking regulatory-driven stress tests, we
conduct our own internal stress tests to understand the nature and
To create a robust control environment to manage risks, we use an
level of material risks, quantify the impact of such risks and develop
activity-based three lines of defence model. This model delineates
plausible mitigating actions. The outcome of a stress test provides
management accountabilities and responsibilities for risk
management with key insights into the impact of severely adverse
management and the control environment.
events on the Group and provides an indication to regulators of the
Group’s resilience to shocks and financial stability.
The model underpins our approach to risk management by clarifying
responsibility and encouraging collaboration, as well as enabling
Internal stress tests
effective coordination of risk and control activities. The three lines of
defence are summarised below: Our internal capital assessment uses a range of stress scenarios that
explore risks identified by management. They include potential
– The first line of defence owns the risks and is responsible adverse macroeconomic, geopolitical, climate and operational risk
for identifying, recording, reporting and managing these risks in events, as well as other potential events that are specific to HSBC.
line with risk appetite, including that the right controls and
assessments are in place to mitigate them. The selection of stress scenarios is based upon the output of our
identified top and emerging risks and our risk appetite processes.
– The second line of defence challenges the first line of defence on
Stress testing analysis helps management understand the nature and
effective risk management, and provides advice, guidance and
extent of vulnerabilities to which the Group is exposed. Using this
assurance of the first line of defence to help ensure it is managing
information, management decides whether risks can or should be
risk effectively.
mitigated through management actions or, if they were to crystallise,
– The third line of defence is our Global Internal Audit function, be absorbed through capital and liquidity. This in turn informs
which provides independent assurance as to whether our risk decisions about preferred capital and liquidity levels and allocations.
management approach and processes are designed and operating
effectively. During 2024, we completed a Group-wide internal stress test
alongside testing of the Group’s strategy, otherwise known as the
Group Risk and Compliance function corporate plan, to test and inform our strategy and assumptions. The
stress scenario assessed the impact of two contrasting scenarios
Our Group Risk and Compliance function is responsible for the
envisioning severe macroeconomic conditions over a five-year period.
Group’s risk management framework. This responsibility includes
These scenarios reflected the uncertain inflation and interest rate
establishing global policy, monitoring risk profiles, and identifying and
environment, heightened geopolitical tensions, banking sector
managing forward-looking risk. Group Risk and Compliance is made
challenges and global economic stress.
up of sub-functions covering all risks to our business. Forming part of
the second line of defence, the Group Risk and Compliance function In addition to the Group-wide stress testing scenarios, each major
is independent from the global businesses, including sales and trading subsidiary conducts regular macroeconomic and event-driven scenario
functions. It provides challenge, appropriate oversight and balance in analysis specific to its region. They also participate, as required, in the
risk/return decisions. regulatory stress testing programmes of the jurisdictions in which
they operate, such as stress tests required by the Bank of England
Responsibility for minimising both financial and non-financial risk,
(‘BoE’) in the UK, the Federal Reserve Board (‘FRB’) in the US, and
including regulatory compliance and financial crime, lies with our
the Hong Kong Monetary Authority (‘HKMA’) in Hong Kong.
people. They are required to manage the risks of the business and
operational activities for which they are responsible. We maintain We also conduct reverse stress tests each year at Group level and,
adequate oversight of our risks through our various specialist risk where required, at subsidiary entity level to understand potential
stewards and the collective accountability held by our chief risk and extreme conditions that would make our business model non-viable.
compliance officers. Reverse stress testing identifies potential stresses and vulnerabilities
we might face, and helps inform early warning triggers, management
We have continued to strengthen the control environment and our
actions and contingency plans designed to mitigate risks.
approach to the management of risk, as set out in our risk
management framework. Our ongoing focus is on helping to enable
more effective oversight and better end-to-end identification and
management of financial and non-financial risks. This is overseen by
the Enterprise Risk Management function, headed by the Global Head
of Enterprise Risk Management.
Risk
review

[PAGE 132]

Risk review
Recovery and resolution plans – We have improved the quality of our strategic change investment
processes and associated control monitoring and are seeking to
Recovery and resolution plans form part of the integral framework
transition to a more agile approach to delivery of complex
safeguarding the Group’s financial stability under severe stress. The
transformation portfolios and initiatives.
Group recovery plan, together with stress testing, helps us identify
credible recovery options that can be implemented under a range of – We continue to enhance our model risk framework in response to
idiosyncratic and market-wide stress scenarios. The aim is to mitigate changes in regulation and external factors. AI and machine learning
the potential shortfall in capital and liquidity pressures. The Group models remain a key focus. Progress has been made in enhancing
continues to develop its recovery and resolution capabilities, including governance activity in this area with particular focus on generative
in relation to the Resolvability Assessment Framework. AI due to the pace of technological change and regulatory and
wider interest in adoption and usage.
Key developments in 2024 – We enhanced our processes, framework and controls to improve
the oversight of our material third parties. We have strengthened
our due diligence and monitoring capabilities, with respect to the
In 2024, we continued to manage risks related to macroeconomic and
financial stability of our third parties to better manage our supply
geopolitical uncertainties and develop risk management capabilities
chain and operational resilience. We will continue to assess and
through the continued enhancement of our risk management
manage our operational resilience.
framework. We also retained our focus on risk transformation and
financial crime and continued to assess the Group’s operational – Through our climate risk programme, we made progress on
resilience capability while prioritising the most significant enterprise embedding climate considerations throughout our organisation,
risks. We made progress with, and continue to develop capabilities to including through risk policy updates. We also developed risk
address key risks. More specifically, we sought to enhance our risk metrics to monitor and manage exposures, and further enhanced
management in the following areas: our internal climate scenario analysis. We continue to implement
our climate risk programme to complete our annual materiality
– We are advancing on our comprehensive initiative aimed at
assessment and make changes to our policies, processes and
strengthening our global regulatory reporting processes and
capabilities to better embed climate considerations throughout our
making them more sustainable. This multifaceted programme
organisation.
includes enhancing data, consistency and controls.
– We deployed industry-leading technology and advanced analytics
– We are further strengthening our control environment through the
capabilities into new markets to improve our ability to identify
delivery of a new Global Control Oversight function which aims to
suspicious activities and prevent financial crime. We will continue
help drive a centralised and consistent approach to controls
to evaluate technological solutions to improve our capabilities in
oversight across the first line of defence business and process
the detection and prevention of financial crime.
owners.
– We continued to embed our regulatory management systems
– We continue to maintain a focus on our technology and
focusing on forward-looking analysis, regulatory mapping, and
cybersecurity controls to improve the resilience and security of our
regulatory content for our inventory.
technology services in response to the heightened external threat
environment. – We continued to enhance our frameworks, policies and
governance processes to embed regulatory requirements.
f

[PAGE 133]

Top and emerging risks
We use a top and emerging risks process to provide a forward-looking We continue to monitor real estate conditions in mainland China and
view of issues with the potential to threaten the execution of our Hong Kong, where activity remains mixed. Various central
strategy or operations over the medium to long term. government policies have been introduced to support the property
market and wider economy, but meaningful signs of recovery are yet
We proactively assess the internal and external risk environment, as
to be observed, with the exception of the residential real estate
well as review the themes identified across our regions and global
market in Hong Kong, which has seen some improvement in
businesses, for any risks that may require global escalation. We
sentiment and transaction volumes in the fourth quarter of 2024.
update our top and emerging risks as necessary.
In Hong Kong, the high vacancy rate in the commercial real estate
Our current top and emerging risks are as follows.
sector and the elevated interest rate environment have added
downward pressure to the commercial real estate market.
Externally driven Commercial land sales resumed during the latter part of 2024 after a
halt earlier in the year, and the recent reduction in interest rates has
Geopolitical and macroeconomic risks provided some liquidity relief to borrowers operating in this sector.
Nevertheless, a sustainable recovery in underlying demand is yet to
Elections and subsequent changes of government during 2024 have materialise, so the pressure on property prices may persist. We
created uncertainty as domestic and foreign policy priorities have continue to closely monitor the risk of further credit deterioration and
shifted. The US in particular is expected to continue to bring about defaults in the portfolio.
changes to economic and foreign policy that will have broad economic
The Israel-Hamas conflict may resurge. While a 42-day ceasefire was
and geopolitical implications.
agreed in January 2025, the durability of the ceasefire remains
Key economic and financial risks are monitored closely. Major uncertain. The regional economic impact of this conflict was relatively
markets, including the US and UK, continued to grow during the limited throughout 2024. The US and UK imposed additional sanctions
second half of 2024, due to expansionary fiscal policies and the on Iran in 2024 in response to Iran’s activities and the increase in
positive impact of monetary easing on domestic demand and tensions between Israel and Iran. Further sanctions may be imposed
investment. Similarly, Hong Kong and mainland China also continued and could increase the risk within our operations. While supply chains
to grow, despite ongoing declines in house prices and weakness in have largely adapted to the Russia-Ukraine war and the conflict in the
consumer spending. Middle East, the disruption of key supply routes, particularly through
the Red Sea, continues to impact global supply costs. Escalation,
The outlook for 2025 remains uncertain as the new US administration resurgence or other changes in the Russia-Ukraine war and the
intends to enact a significant change in economic and foreign policies conflict in the Middle East could impact economic activity regionally or
that could have an uncertain impact on global growth, inflation and globally for a prolonged period, which in turn could have a material
interest rates. In particular, the prospect of additional US tariffs and adverse effect on the Group’s business, financial condition, results of
retaliatory actions on trade has started to weigh on economic growth operations, prospects, liquidity, capital position and credit ratings.
forecasts and has raised future inflation expectations. Consequently, HSBC actively monitors and responds to financial sanctions and trade
markets now expect that major central banks will adopt a more restrictions that have been adopted in response to the conflicts.
cautious approach to lowering policy interest rates during the course
of 2025. The sanctions and trade restrictions imposed by the US, the UK, and
the EU, as well as other countries, as a result of the Russia-Ukraine
The prospective impact on individual economies from the imposition war, remain complex, far-reaching and evolving. The US has
of higher US tariffs will depend on the breadth and level of the expanded the reach of its secondary sanctions regime, which includes
increases and the dependence of the relevant countries’ exports on broad discretion to impose severe sanctions on non-US banks that are
US import demand. Emerging markets with higher levels of US dollar- knowingly or even unknowingly engaged in certain transactions or
denominated debt and weaker public finances could be further services directly or indirectly involving Russia’s military-industrial
impacted by higher US interest rates and US dollar strength which base, including certain third-party activities that are difficult to detect
could result in higher repayment costs and refinancing risks and the or beyond HSBC’s control. The imposition of such sanctions against
associated possibility of sovereign rating downgrades. any non-US HSBC entity could result in significant adverse
commercial, operational and reputational consequences for HSBC. In
The country and sector implications of changing global trade policies
response to such sanctions and trade restrictions, as well as asset
remains an area that is closely monitored. The implications for export
flight, Russia has implemented certain countermeasures, including
demand from mainland China and Hong Kong is a key area of
the expropriation of foreign assets.
concern.
Following a strategic review in 2022, HSBC Europe BV (a wholly-
Markets continue to finance high public deficits, but debt
owned subsidiary of HSBC Bank plc) entered into an agreement to
sustainability remains a risk when set against a backdrop of more
sell its wholly-owned subsidiary HSBC Bank Russia (RR) (Limited
uncertain global growth prospects and a higher interest rate
Liability Company), which was completed in May 2024.
environment. Debt levels continue to rise in major markets as
demands grow on government budgets from rising social welfare Global tensions over trade and technology are resulting in divergent
costs, defence and climate transition. We are monitoring the fiscal regulatory standards and compliance regimes, presenting long-term
and market implications of recent government changes, including in strategic challenges for multinational businesses. The relationships
the UK and the US, where election pledges are ambitious relative to between China and several other countries, including the US and the
already stretched fiscal positions. As global yields have increased, UK, remain complex.
government bond prices have become increasingly sensitive to
differences in growth and inflation expectations between markets, as To date, the US, the UK, the EU and other countries have imposed
well as the perception of fiscal and funding risks. A loss of investor various sanctions and trade restrictions on Chinese persons and
confidence could drive a rise in yields, raise funding costs for companies, and there is a continued risk of additional sanctions and
governments and lead to tax increases and expenditure cuts that are trade restrictions or tariffs being imposed by the US and other
negative for growth. For HSBC, the risks of a sharp rise in funding governments in relation to, among other things, alleged human rights
costs in our key markets relate both to the credit and refunding risks abuses, advances in certain sensitive technologies, territorial conflicts,
of our customers, market pricing risks of assets held for sale, and and the illicit trade of fentanyl and other synthetic opioids. Strategic
risks to net interest margins. competition with China has the potential to impact the Group's
operations and global supply chains remain vulnerable to a
Risk
review

[PAGE 134]

Risk review
deterioration in the relationship between China and other countries. For further details of our Central and other scenarios, see ‘Measurement
For example, the US recently imposed a new programme restricting uncertainty and sensitivity analysis of ECL estimates’ on page 148.
certain US outbound investments in Chinese companies engaged in Mitigating actions
sensitive technology sectors and the EU is considering a similar
programme. In addition, during 2024 both the US and the EU raised – We closely monitor geopolitical and economic developments in
the rate at which they levy tariffs on a range of Chinese imports, key markets and sectors and undertake scenario analysis where
including electric vehicles. These have been imposed on the basis of appropriate. This helps us to take actions to manage our portfolios
unfair competition, where the Chinese government is accused of where necessary, including through enhanced monitoring,
providing unfair subsidies to industry. amending our risk appetite and/or reducing limits and exposures.
– We stress test portfolios of particular concern to identify
China, in turn, imposed a number of its own sanctions and trade
sensitivity to loss under a range of scenarios, with management
restrictions that target, or provide authority to target, foreign
actions being taken to rebalance exposures and manage risk
individuals or companies as well as certain goods such as rare earth
appetite where necessary.
minerals and metals, and technology and services. These, as well as
certain other retaliatory measures, have been and may continue to be – We apply management judgemental adjustments where modelled
imposed against certain countries, businesses and individuals. ECL does not fully reflect the identified risks and related
uncertainty, or to capture significant late-breaking events.
Existing and additional sanctions, trade restrictions, counter-sanctions
and other retaliatory measures relating to the foregoing or other – We regularly review key portfolios – including our commercial real
geopolitical tensions may adversely affect the Group, its customers estate portfolio – to help ensure that individual customer or
and the markets in which the Group operates by creating regulatory, portfolio risks are understood and that our ability to manage the
reputational and market risks, including additional inflationary level of facilities offered through any downturn is appropriate.
pressures, and a more complex operating environment. – We continue to seek to manage sanctions and trade restrictions
through the use of reasonably-designed policies, procedures and
As the geopolitical landscape evolves, compliance by multinational
controls, which are subject to ongoing testing and enhancements.
corporations with their legal or regulatory obligations in one
jurisdiction may be seen as supporting the law or policy objectives of – We have taken steps, where necessary, to enhance physical
that jurisdiction over another, creating additional legal, regulatory, security in geographical areas deemed to be at high risk from
reputational and political risks for the Group. We maintain dialogue terrorism and military conflicts.
with our regulators in various jurisdictions on the impact of legal and
regulatory obligations on our business and customers. Technology and cybersecurity risk
The financial impact on the Group of geopolitical risks in Asia is
Like other organisations, we operate in an extensive and complex
heightened due to the region’s relatively high contribution to the
technology landscape. We need to remain resilient in order to support
Group’s profitability, particularly in Hong Kong.
customers, our colleagues and financial markets globally. Risks arise
While it is the Group‘s policy to comply with all applicable laws and where, for example, technology is not understood, maintained or
regulations of all jurisdictions in which it operates, geopolitical developed appropriately. We also continue to operate in an
tensions and potential ambiguities in the Group’s compliance increasingly complex cyber threat environment globally. These threats
obligations continue to present challenges and risks for the Group, include potential unauthorised access to systems including access to
and could have a material adverse impact on the Group’s strategy, customer data, whether ours or that of our third-party suppliers’.
business, customers, operations, financial results and reputation. These threats require ongoing investment in business and technical
controls to defend against them.
More stringent data privacy, national security and cybersecurity laws
in a number of markets could pose potential challenges to intra-Group Mitigating actions
data sharing. These developments may affect our ability to manage
– We continue to upgrade many of our technology systems and are
financial crime risks across markets due to limitations on cross-border
transforming how software solutions are developed, delivered,
transfers of personal information.
maintained and tested as part of our investment in the Group’s
Provisioning against credit loss is conducted under the IFRS 9 operational resilience capabilities to seek to meet the expectations
‘Financial Instruments’ (’IFRS 9’) calculations of ECL, which use of our customers and regulators, and to help prevent disruptions to
forward-looking scenarios that incorporate the economic and financial our services.
risks detailed above.
– Our cyber intelligence and threat analysis team continually
evaluate threat levels for the most prevalent cyber-attack types
Key considerations in our calculation of ECLs included inflationary
and their potential outcomes (see page 84), and we continue to
pressures, interest rates and changes to economic and financial
seek to strengthen our controls to help reduce the likelihood and
policies. In the fourth quarter of 2024, to address heightened policy
impact of attacks including advanced malware, data leakage,
uncertainty following the US election and to overcome any lags in
exposure through third parties and security vulnerabilities.
consensus forecasts, an adjustment factor based on more recent
views of expected tariffs and other policy changes was modelled and – We continue to seek to enhance our cybersecurity capabilities,
then applied to each of the economic scenarios. The effect was to including Cloud security, identity and access management, metrics
lower growth expectations in our major markets, while the impact on and data analytics, and third-party security reviews and to invest in
inflation and interest rates was varied. mitigating the potential threats of emerging technologies.
Following the adjustment the Central scenario continues to be – We regularly report and review cyber risk and control
assigned the highest probability weighting across all of our major effectiveness at executive level across global businesses,
markets. Outer scenarios have incorporated more adverse tariff functions and regions, as well as at non-executive Board level to
escalations and the escalation of key geopolitical risks. help enable appropriate visibility and governance of the risk and its
mitigating actions.
There remains uncertainty regarding the adequacy of our models to
– We participate globally in industry bodies and working groups,
reflect credit losses under emerging risks which are not captured
working together to seek to prevent, detect and defend against
under the historical loss experience of our models, or to adequately
cyber-attacks on financial organisations globally.
distinguish risks for specific sectors or portfolios.
– We respond to attempts to compromise our cybersecurity in
The above risks could also have an impact on our customers and we accordance with our cybersecurity framework. To date, none of
continue to closely monitor the potential impacts and offer support to these attacks have had a material impact on our business or
our customers in line with regulatory, government and wider operations.
stakeholder expectations.

[PAGE 135]

Environmental, social and governance (’ESG’) risk
We are subject to financial and non-financial risks associated with We may face additional risks if we knowingly or unknowingly make
ESG-related matters, such as climate change, nature-related and inaccurate, unclear, misleading, or unsubstantiated claims regarding
human rights issues. These matters can impact us both directly and sustainability to our stakeholders.
indirectly through our business activities and relationships. For details
We may face climate and ESG-related litigation and regulatory
of how we govern ESG, see page 74.
enforcement risks, either directly if stakeholders think that we are not
We may face credit losses if climate-related regulatory, legislative or adequately managing climate and ESG-related risks, or indirectly, if
technological developments impact customers’ business models or if our clients and customers are themselves the subject of litigation,
extreme weather events disrupt or interrupt customers’ operations, potentially resulting in the revaluation of their assets.
resulting in financial difficulty for customers and/or stranded assets,
and impacting their ability to repay their debts. Our customers may Requirements, policy objectives, expectations, views or market and
find that their business models fail to align to a net zero economy or public perceptions and preferences in connection with the transition to a
face disruption to their operations or deterioration to their assets as a net zero economy and ESG-related matters may vary by jurisdiction and
result of extreme weather. stakeholder, particularly in light of the differing perspectives of
stakeholders in different markets, including the UK, the US, the EU and
Trading losses may arise if climate change results in changes to other markets regarding climate impacts and the nature of the
macroeconomic and financial variables that negatively impact our appropriate responses to climate change. We may be subject to
trading book exposures. potentially conflicting approaches to ESG matters in certain jurisdictions,
which may impact our ability to conduct certain business within those
We may also be exposed to liquidity impacts in the form of deposit
jurisdictions or result in additional regulatory compliance, reputational,
outflows due to changes in customer behaviours driven by impacts to
political or litigation risks. For example, our reputation and client
profitability/wealth, or from reputational concerns relating to the
relationships may be damaged as a result of our decision to participate,
progress we make towards our climate-related ambitions and targets.
or not to participate, in certain projects perceived to be associated with
We may face impacts to our real estate portfolios due to changes to causing or exacerbating climate change, as well as any decisions we
the climate, an increase in the frequency and severity of extreme make to continue to conduct or change our activities in response to
weather events and chronic shifts in weather patterns, which could considerations relating to climate change, including the transition to net
impact both property values and the ability of borrowers to afford their zero. These risks may also arise from divergence in the implementation
mortgage payments. This may lead to the reduced availability or of ESG, climate policy and financial regulation in the many regions in
increased cost of insurance, including insurance that protects property which we operate, including initiatives to apply and enforce policy and
pledged as collateral of HSBC mortgages. regulation with extraterritorial effect.
Operational risk may increase if extreme weather events impact We may face financial reporting risk in relation to our climate and ESG
critical operations and premises. disclosures, as data remains of limited quality and consistency, exposing
us to the risk of using incomplete and inaccurate data and models that
We may face regulatory compliance risk resulting from the increasing could result in sub-optimal decision making. Methodologies, data,
pace, breadth and depth of climate-related regulatory expectations, scenarios and industry standards that we have used may evolve over
including on the management of climate risk, and variations in time in line with market practice, regulation or developments in science,
climate-related reporting standards, requiring implementation in short where applicable. Any such developments in methodologies and
timeframes across multiple jurisdictions. scenarios, and changes in the availability, accuracy and verifiability of
data over time and our ability to collect and process such data, exposes
Conduct risk may arise in association with the increasing demand for
us to financial reporting risk in relation to our climate and ESG
‘green’ or ‘sustainable’ products where there are differing and
disclosures. This could result in revisions to our internal measurement
developing standards or taxonomies.
frameworks as well as reported data going forward, including on
We may face reputational risk arising from how we decide to support financed emissions, meaning that such data may not be reconcilable or
our customers in high-emitting sectors in their transition to net zero, comparable year on year. We may also have to re-evaluate our progress
the preferences of different stakeholders in relation to our approach towards our ESG-related ambitions and targets in the future.
to the transition to net zero, and if we make insufficient progress in
We may also be exposed to nature-related risks beyond climate change.
achieving our climate-related ambitions and targets.
These risks may arise when the provision of ecosystem services, such
We may also be exposed to model risk, as the uncertain and evolving as water availability, air quality and soil quality, is compromised, primarily
impacts of climate change as well as data and methodology by the five key drivers of nature loss: changes in land/freshwater/sea-
limitations, present challenges to creating reliable and accurate model use; climate change; pollution of air, water and soil; over-exploitation of
outputs. natural resources; and invasive alien species. They can manifest
themselves in a variety of ways for both HSBC and its customers,
Reputational, regulatory compliance and legal risks may increase as including through macroeconomic, market, credit, reputational,
we make progress towards our ESG-related ambitions and targets, regulatory compliance and legal risks.
with stakeholders likely to place greater focus on our actions, such as
the development of ESG-related policies, our disclosures and Regulation and disclosure requirements in relation to human rights
financing and investment decisions relating to our ESG-related are increasing. Businesses are expected to be transparent about their
ambitions and targets. efforts to identify and respond to the risk of adverse human rights
impacts arising from their business activities and relationships. Failure
We may be exposed to additional risks if we fail to: to manage this risk may negatively impact people and communities,
which in turn may result in reputational, regulatory compliance and
– make sufficient progress towards our ESG-related ambitions and
legal risks for HSBC.
targets;
– set adequate plans to execute those plans or adapt those plans to Mitigating actions
changes in the external environment;
– The Environmental Risk Steering Meeting provides oversight of
– manage the risks associated both with meeting and not meeting environmental risk and the risk of greenwashing. For further
our ESG-related ambitions and targets; and details of the Group’s ESG governance structure, see page 74.
– meet evolving regulatory expectations and requirements on the – Our climate risk programme continues to support the development
management of ESG risks. of our climate risk management capabilities across four key pillars:
governance and risk appetite, risk management, stress testing and
scenario analysis, and disclosures.
Risk
review

[PAGE 136]

Risk review
– We continue to enhance our approach to managing and mitigating Mitigating actions
the risk of greenwashing.
– We continue to seek to manage sanctions and trade restrictions
– Our sustainability risk policies form part of our broader risk through the use of reasonably designed policies, procedures and
management framework and are important mechanisms for controls, which are subject to ongoing testing and enhancements.
managing risks. Our sustainability risk policies focus on mitigating
– We continue to develop our fraud controls and invest in
reputational, credit, legal and other risks related to our customers’
capabilities to fight financial crime through the application of
environmental and social impacts. For further details of our
advanced analytics and AI, while monitoring technological
sustainability risk policies, see page 62.
developments and engaging with third parties.
– We are developing our understanding of nature-related risks in line
– We continue to assess the impact of a rapidly changing payments
with European regulatory expectations.
ecosystem, as well as risks associated with direct and indirect
– In 2024, we focused on our approach to human rights risk exposure to digital assets and currencies, in an effort to maintain
management relating to the goods and services we buy from third appropriate financial crime controls.
parties and in respect of our business customers. For further
– We regularly review our existing policies and control framework so
details of our approach to human rights risk management, see
that developments relating to ESG are considered and the related
page 75.
financial crime risks are mitigated to the extent possible.
– The scope of our financial reporting risk framework includes
– We engage with regulators, policymakers and relevant
oversight of the accuracy and completeness of climate and ESG
international bodies, seeking to address data privacy challenges
disclosures. Our risk appetite statement references our climate
through international standards, guidance and legislation.
and ESG disclosures. Our internal controls incorporate
requirements for addressing the risk of misstatement in climate Digitalisation and technological
and ESG disclosures. To support this, we have developed a
framework to guide control implementation over climate and ESG advances risk
disclosures, which includes areas such as process and data
governance, and risk assessment. Developments in technology and changes to regulations are enabling
new entrants to the industry, particularly with respect to payments.
– We continue to engage with our customers, investors and
This challenges us to continue innovating to address evolving
regulators proactively on the management of climate and ESG
customer requirements, drive efficiency and adapt our products to
risks. We also engage with initiatives, including the Climate
attract and retain customers. As a result, we may need to increase
Financial Risk Forum, Task Force on Climate-related Financial
investment in our business to adapt or develop products and services
Disclosures and CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project) to
to respond to our customers’ evolving needs. We aim to ensure that
help drive best practice for climate risk management.
new digital capabilities do not weaken our resilience or wider risk
For further details of our approach to climate risk management, see ‘Climate management capabilities.
risk’ on page 219.
New technologies such as generative AI, large language models,
Our ESG review can be found on page 41.
blockchain, and quantum computing offer both business opportunities
and potential risks for HSBC. As with the use of all technologies, we
Financial crime risk
aim to maximise their potential while seeking to ensure a robust
Financial institutions remain under considerable regulatory scrutiny control environment is in place to help manage the inherent risks.
regarding their ability to detect and prevent financial crime. In 2024,
Mitigating actions
these risks continued to be exacerbated by rising geopolitical tensions
and ongoing macroeconomic factors. These challenges require – We continue to monitor this emerging risk and advances in
managing conflicting laws and approaches to legal and regulatory technology, as well as changes in customer behaviours, to
regimes, and implementing increasingly complex and less predictable understand how these may impact our business.
sanctions and trade restrictions.
– We assess new technologies to help develop appropriate controls
Amid increasing cost of living pressures, we continue to face and maintain resilience.
increasing regulatory expectations with respect to managing internal – We closely monitor and assess financial crime risk and the impact
and external fraud and protecting customers. The accessibility and on payment transparency and wider payment infrastructure.
increasing sophistication of generative AI brings additional financial
crime risks. While there is potential for the technology to support – We conduct risk assessments and have governance in place (for
financial crime detection, there is also a risk that criminals use example on AI and digital assets and currencies) to help enable
generative AI to perpetrate fraud, particularly scams. Group-wide cross-risk focus on areas of emerging technology.
– We make public commitments as to how we engage with new
The digitisation of financial services continues to have an impact on
technology innovation, for example publishing HSBC’s Principles
the payments ecosystem, with an increasing number of new market
for the Ethical Use of Data and AI.
entrants and payment mechanisms, not all of which are subject to the
same level of regulatory scrutiny or regulations as banks. – We continue to make improvements to our related policies and to
Developments around digital assets and currencies have continued at our control framework in order to enhance the end-to-end
pace, with an increasing regulatory and enforcement focus on the management of risks from new technology innovations.
financial crimes linked to these types of assets.
Evolving regulatory environment risk
The intersection of ESG issues and financial crime continues to pose
risks related to potential ‘greenwashing’, human rights issues and We aim to keep abreast of the emerging regulatory compliance and
environmental crime, as our organisation, customers and suppliers conduct risk agenda. Current focus areas include but are not limited
transition to net zero. In addition, climate change itself could heighten to: ESG developments, particularly managing the risk of
risks linked to vulnerable migrant populations in countries where ‘greenwashing’; ensuring good customer outcomes and addressing
financial crime is already more prevalent. customer vulnerabilities; enhancements to regulatory reporting
controls; employee compliance including the use of e-communication
We also continue to face increasing challenges presented by national channels; and developments in legal principles or conduct
data privacy requirements, which may affect our ability to manage requirements (including in relation to the risk of such developments in
financial crime risks across markets. one part of the financial industry being construed as applying to other
parts of the financial industry, which could lead to legal or regulatory
proceedings).

[PAGE 137]

The competitive landscape in which the Group operates may be – We continued to develop the management of our intra-group
impacted by future regulatory changes and government intervention arrangements using the same control standards as we apply to
including changes driven by governments adopting a pro-business external third party arrangements.
growth agenda.
– We have strengthened our due diligence and monitoring
Mitigating actions capabilities in respect of the financial stability of our third parties.
– We have strengthened the way third-party risk is overseen and
– We monitor regulatory developments to understand the evolving
managed across all non-financial risks, and have enhanced our
regulatory landscape, and seek to respond with changes in a
processes, framework and reporting capabilities to help improve
timely manner.
the visibility of risk and enable more robust management of our
– We engage with governments and regulators, and respond to material third parties by our global businesses, functions and
consultations with a view to help shape regulations that can be regions.
implemented effectively.
– We are implementing the changes required by new regulations as
– We hold regular meetings with relevant authorities to discuss set by our regulators.
strategic contingency plans, including those arising from
geopolitical issues. Model risk
– Our purpose-led conduct approach aligns to our purpose and
Model risk arises whenever business decision making includes
values, in particular the value ‘we take responsibility’.
reliance on models. We use models in both financial and non-financial
contexts, as well as in a range of business applications such as
Internally driven customer selection, product pricing, financial crime transaction
monitoring, creditworthiness evaluation and financial reporting.
Data risk Assessing model performance is a continuous undertaking including
both regular monitoring of the model’s performance and more
We use multiple systems and growing quantities of data to support fundamental reviews of the model construct and data.
our customers. Risk arises if data is incorrect, unavailable, misused or
Model risk remains a key area of focus given the regulatory scrutiny in
unprotected. Along with other banks and financial institutions, we
this area, with local regulatory exams taking place in many
need to meet external regulatory obligations and laws that cover data,
jurisdictions and the PRA’s supervisory statement 1/23 (SS1/23)
such as the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision’s 239
coming into effect, This provided detailed principles-based guidance
guidelines and the General Data Protection Regulation.
on how model risk should be managed, and further developments in
Mitigating actions policy are also expected from other regulators.
– Through our global data management framework, we monitor the We continued to prioritise the redevelopment of internal ratings-based
quality, availability and security of data that supports our (‘IRB’) and internal model methods (‘IMM’) models, in relation to
customers and internal processes. We work towards resolving any counterparty credit, as part of the IRB repair and Basel 3.1 and
identified data issues in a timely manner. Fundamental Review of the Trading Book programmes. We have a
key focus on enhancing the quality of data used as model inputs and
– We continue to make improvements to our data policies and to our
ensuring that models adhere to both the letter and spirit of the
control framework – which includes trusted sources, data flows
regulation. Some models have been approved and a number are
and data quality – in order to enhance the end-to-end management
pending approval decisions from the UK’s Prudential Regulation
of data risk.
Authority (‘PRA’) and other key regulators. We also launched a major
– We have established a global data management utility and project to develop 32 Wholesale IRB models which are expected to
continue to simplify and unify data management activities across be submitted for regulatory approval over the next two and a half
the Group. years.
– We seek to protect customer data through our data privacy
Focus remains on AI and machine learning models where the pace of
framework, which establishes practices, design principles and
technological advances, including the development of generative AI,
guidelines that enable us to demonstrate compliance with data
is driving significant changes in modelling techniques, and regulators
privacy laws and regulations.
across the globe are beginning to publish regulations and guidance.
– We continue to modernise our data and analytics infrastructure
through investments in cloud technology, data visualisation, Mitigating actions
machine learning and AI.
– We are investing in the redevelopment of our IRB models used in
– We continue to educate our employees on data risk and data our wholesale businesses to enhance our modelling capability and
management. We have delivered regular mandatory training help ensure we meet regulatory expectations for the adoption of
globally on how to protect and manage data appropriately. Basel 3.1 requirements.
– We updated our Model Risk Management (‘MRM’) framework to
Risks arising from the receipt of
meet the requirements of the PRA’s SS1/23 with a programme of
services from third parties work in progress to implement these changes across our model
landscape.
We use third parties to provide a range of goods and services. It is
– We completed a review of model tiering across the organisation
critical that we seek to have appropriate risk management policies,
assessing the materiality and complexity of all models and
processes and practices over the selection, governance and oversight
assigning a new tier which will drive the level of oversight required
of third parties and their supply chain, particularly for key activities
at model level.
that could affect our operational resilience. Any deficiency in the
management of risks associated with our third parties could affect our – We introduced a new framework to govern and manage the risks
ability to support our customers and meet regulatory expectations. associated with Deterministic Quantitative Methods. These are
complex and material calculators, which although not technically
Mitigating actions models, still present similar risks.
– We continue to monitor the effectiveness of the controls operated – Model Risk Governance committees at the Group, business and
by our third-party providers and request third-party control reports, functional levels continue to provide oversight of model risk.
where required.
– Model Risk Management works closely with businesses to help
develop IRB/IMM/IMA/IFRS 9/stress testing models to meet risk
Risk
review

[PAGE 138]

Risk review
management, pricing, capital management, and credit risk Risks associated with workforce
measurement needs.
capability, capacity and
– Additional assurance work is performed by the model risk
governance teams, which act as second lines of defence. The environmental factors with potential
teams test whether controls implemented by model users comply
with model risk policy and if model risk procedures are adequate. impact on growth
– Models using AI or generative AI techniques are reviewed by the Our global businesses and functions in all of our markets are exposed
relevant risk teams and monitored by the business to help ensure to risks associated with workforce capacity challenges, including
that identified risks have adequate oversight and review. A challenges to retain, develop and attract high-performing employees
framework to manage the range of risks that are generated by in key labour markets, the changing skills requirements of our
these advanced techniques and to recognise the multidisciplinary workforce and compliance with employment laws and regulations.
nature of these risks has been developed. Failure to manage these risks may have an impact on the delivery of
our strategic objectives. It could also result in poor customer
Change execution risk
outcomes or a breach of employment laws and regulations, which
The needs of our customers are evolving faster than ever, and the may lead to regulatory sanctions or legal claims.
complexity and pace of strategic, regulatory and technological change
Mitigating actions
require us to improve the way we prioritise resources and deliver
strategic outcomes safely and sustainably. The embedding of – We seek to promote an inclusive workforce and provide health and
structural changes throughout the Group, arising as part of the wellbeing support. We continue to build our speak-up culture
reorganisation of our businesses announced in October 2024, is through active campaigns.
expected to enable the strategy to be executed more efficiently but
– We monitor hiring activities and levels of employee attrition, with
may elevate the level of change execution risk in the near to medium
each business and function putting in place plans to help ensure
term.
they have effective workforce forecasting to meet business
Mitigating actions demands.
– We monitor people risks that could arise due to organisational
– We have strengthened our investment case and prioritisation
restructuring, seeking to ensure that we manage redundancies
processes, while improving the monitoring and oversight of our
sensitively and support impacted employees. We encourage our
change portfolio and overall operating control environment.
people leaders to focus on talent retention at all levels, with an
– The Change Prioritisation and Oversight Committee continues to empathetic mindset and approach, while ensuring the whole
oversee the prioritisation, strategic alignment, and management of proposition of working at HSBC is well understood.
execution risk for strategic change portfolios and initiatives.
– Our Future Skills curriculum aims to provide skills that enable
Additionally, the HSBC Holdings Board provides enhanced
employees and HSBC to be successful in the future.
oversight over the simplification programme, directly supervising
its mobilisation and delivery. – We develop succession plans for key management roles, with
oversight from the Group Executive Committee.
– Change benefits and funding will be aligned to the new Group
organisational structure. Consideration of integrated business and
technology architecture design will be a critical input to our
prioritisation of future change investment.

[PAGE 139]

Our material banking risks
The material risk types associated with our banking and insurance manufacturing operations are described in the following tables:
Description of risks – banking operations
Risks Arising from Measurement, monitoring and management of risk
Credit risk See page 139
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss Credit risk arises principally from direct Credit risk is:
if a customer or counterparty fails to lending, trade finance and leasing – measured as the amount that could be lost if a customer or counterparty
meet an obligation under a contract. business, but also from other products fails to make repayments;
such as guarantees and derivatives. – monitored using various internal risk management measures and within
limits approved by individuals within a framework of delegated authorities;
and
– managed through a risk control framework, which outlines clear
and consistent policies, principles and guidance for risk managers; and by
setting limits and appetite across geographical markets, portfolios or
sectors.
Treasury risk See page 200
Treasury risk is the risk of having Treasury risk arises from changes to the Treasury risk is:
insufficient capital, liquidity or funding respective resources and risk profiles – measured through risk appetite and more granular limits, set to provide an
resources to meet financial driven by customer behaviour, early warning of increasing risk, minimum ratios of relevant regulatory
obligations and satisfy regulatory management decisions or the external metrics, and metrics to monitor the key risk drivers impacting treasury
requirements, including the risk of an environment. resources;
adverse impact on earnings or capital – monitored and projected against appetites and by using operating plans
due to structural and transactional based on strategic objectives together with stress and scenario testing; and
foreign exchange exposures and
– managed through control of resources in conjunction with risk profiles,
changes in market interest rates,
strategic objectives and cash flows.
together with pension and insurance
risk.
Market risk See page 216
Market risk is the risk of an adverse Market risk arises from both trading Market risk is:
financial impact on trading activities portfolios and non-trading portfolios. – measured using sensitivities, value at risk and stress testing, giving a
arising from changes in market Market risk for non-trading portfolios is detailed picture of potential gains and losses for a range of market
parameters such as interest rates, discussed in the Treasury risk section on movements and scenarios, as well as tail risks over specified time horizons;
foreign exchange rates, asset prices, page 212. Market risk exposures arising – monitored using value at risk, stress testing and other measures; and
volatilities, correlations and credit from our insurance operations are
– managed using risk limits approved by the Group Risk Management
spreads. discussed on page 234.
Meeting and the risk management meetings in various global businesses.
Climate risk See page 219
Climate risk relates to the financial Climate risk can materialise through: Climate risk is:
and non-financial impacts that may – physical risk, which arises from the – measured using risk metrics and stress testing;
arise as a result of climate change increased frequency and severity of – monitored against risk appetite statements; and
and the move to a net zero economy. weather events;
– managed through adherence to risk appetite thresholds, through specific
– transition risk, which arises from the policies, and through enhancements to processes and development of
process of moving to a net zero tools including the development of product market controls to manage the
economy; risk of greenwashing and the development of portfolio steering capabilities
– net zero alignment risk, which arises to manage our net zero ambitions.
from failing to meet our net zero
ambition or to meet external
expectations related to net zero; and
– the risk of greenwashing, which arises
from the act of knowingly or
unknowingly making inaccurate,
unclear, misleading or unsubstantiated
claims regarding sustainability to
stakeholders.
Resilience risk See page
228
Resilience risk is the risk of sustained Resilience risk arises from failures or Resilience risk is:
and significant business disruption inadequacies in processes, people, – measured using a range of metrics and against our agreed risk appetite;
from execution, delivery, physical systems or external events.
– monitored through oversight of enterprise processes, risks, controls and
security or safety events, causing the
strategic change programmes; and
inability to provide critical services to
our customers, affiliates, and – managed by continual monitoring and thematic reviews.
counterparties.
Risk
review

[PAGE 140]

Risk review
Description of risks – banking operations (continued)
Risks Arising from Measurement, monitoring and management of risk
Regulatory compliance risk See page
229
Regulatory compliance risk is the risk Regulatory compliance risk arises from the Regulatory compliance risk is:
associated with breaching our duty to failure to observe relevant laws, codes, – measured by reference to risk appetite, identified metrics, incident
clients and other counterparties, rules and regulations and can manifest assessments, regulatory feedback and the judgement and assessment of
inappropriate market conduct itself in poor market or customer outcomes our regulatory compliance teams;
(including unauthorised trading) and and lead to fines, penalties and reputational – monitored against the first line of defence risk and control assessments,
breaching related financial services damage to our business. and the results of the monitoring and control assurance activities of the
regulatory standards. second line of defence functions; and
– managed by establishing and communicating appropriate policies and
procedures, training employees in them and monitoring activity to help
embed their observance. Proactive risk control and/or remediation work is
undertaken where required.
Financial crime risk See page
229
Financial crime risk is the risk that Financial crime risk arises from day-to-day Financial crime risk is:
HSBC’s products and services will be banking operations involving customers, – measured by reference to risk appetite, identified metrics, incident
exploited for criminal activity. This third parties and employees. assessments, regulatory feedback and the judgement of, and assessment
includes fraud, bribery and by, our financial crime teams;
corruption, tax evasion, sanctions – monitored against the first line of defence risk and control assessments,
and export control violations and and the results of the monitoring and control assurance activities of the
evasion, money laundering, terrorist second line of defence functions; and
financing and proliferation financing.
– managed by establishing and communicating appropriate policies and
procedures, training employees and monitoring activity to help embed
their observance. Proactive risk control and/or remediation work is
undertaken where required.
Model risk See page
230
Model risk is the risk of the potential Model risk arises in both financial and non- Model risk is:
for adverse consequences from financial contexts whenever business – measured by reference to model performance tracking and the output of
model errors or the inappropriate use decision making includes reliance on detailed technical reviews and regulatory feedback, with key metrics
of modelled outputs to inform models. including model review statuses and findings;
business decisions. – monitored against model risk appetite statements, insight from the
independent validations completed by the model risk management team;
and
– managed by creating and communicating appropriate policies, procedures
and guidance, training colleagues in their application, and supervising their
adoption to help ensure operational effectiveness.
Our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries are regulated separately from our banking operations. Risks in our insurance entities are managed
using methodologies and processes that are subject to Group oversight. Our insurance operations are also subject to many of the same risks as
our banking operations, and these are covered by the Group’s risk management processes. However, there are specific risks inherent to the
insurance operations as noted below.
Description of risks – insurance manufacturing operations
Risks Arising from Measurement, monitoring and management of risk
Financial risk See page 23
1
For insurance entities, financial risk Exposure to financial risk arises from: Financial risk is:
includes the risk of not being able to – market risk affecting the fair values of – measured for credit risk, in terms of economic capital and the amount that
effectively match liabilities arising financial assets or their future cash could be lost if a counterparty fails to make repayments; for market risk, in
under insurance contracts with flows; terms of economic capital, internal metrics and fluctuations in key financial
appropriate investments and that the – credit risk; and variables; and for liquidity risk, in terms of internal metrics including
expected sharing of financial stressed operational cash flow projections;
– liquidity risk of entities being unable to
performance with policyholders make payments to policyholders as they – monitored through a framework of approved limits and delegated
under certain contracts is not fall due. authorities; and
possible.
– managed through a risk control framework, which outlines clear and
consistent policies, principles and guidance. This includes using product
design, asset liability matching and bonus rates.
Insurance risk See page 23
5
Insurance risk is the risk that, over The cost of claims and benefits can be Insurance risk is:
time, the cost of insurance policies influenced by many factors, including – measured in terms of life insurance liabilities and economic capital allocated
written, including claims and mortality and morbidity experience, as well to insurance underwriting risk;
benefits, may exceed the total as lapse and surrender rates. – monitored through a framework of approved limits and delegated
amount of premiums and investment authorities; and
income received.
– managed through a risk control framework, which outlines clear and
consistent policies, principles and guidance. This includes using product
design, underwriting, reinsurance and claims-handling procedures.

[PAGE 141]

Credit risk
The principal objectives of our credit risk management are:
Contents
– to maintain across HSBC a strong culture of responsible lending,
139 Overview and robust risk policies and control frameworks;
139 Credit risk management – to both partner and challenge our businesses in defining,
141 Credit risk in 2024 implementing and continually re-evaluating our risk appetite under
142 Summary of credit risk actual and scenario conditions; and
145 Stage 2 decomposition – to ensure there is independent, expert scrutiny of credit risks, their
146 Assets held for sale costs and their mitigation.
147 Credit exposure
Key risk management processes
148 Measurement uncertainty and sensitivity analysis of ECL estimates
161 Reconciliation of changes in gross carrying/nominal amount and IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ process
allowances for loans and advances to banks and customers including
loan commitments and financial guarantees The IFRS 9 process comprises three main areas: modelling, data and
forward economic guidance; implementation; and governance.
166 Credit quality
170 Wholesale lending Modelling, data and forward economic guidance
184 Personal lending We have established IFRS 9 modelling and data processes in various
195 Supplementary information geographies, which are subject to internal model risk governance
199 HSBC Holdings including independent review of significant model developments.
We have a centralised process for generating unbiased and
Overview independent global economic scenarios. Scenarios are subject to a
process of review and challenge by a dedicated central team and
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss if a customer or counterparty individually for each region. Each quarter, the scenarios and probability
fails to meet an obligation under a contract. Credit risk arises weights are reviewed and checked for consistency with the economic
principally from direct lending, trade finance and leasing business, but conjuncture and current economic and financial risks. These are
also from other products such as guarantees and derivatives. subject to final review and approval by senior management in a
forward economic guidance global business impairment committee.
Credit risk management Implementation
A centralised impairment engine performs the expected credit losses
Key developments in 2024 calculation using data, which is subject to a number of validation
checks and enhancements, from a variety of client, finance and risk
There were no material changes to the policies and practices for the systems. Where possible, these checks and processes are performed
management of credit risk in 2024. We continued to apply the in a globally consistent and centralised manner.
requirements of IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ within the Credit Risk
Governance
sub-function.
Regional management review forums are established in key sites and
We actively managed the risks related to macroeconomic regions in order to review and approve the impairment results.
uncertainties, including interest rates, inflation, fiscal and monetary Regional management review forums have representatives from
policy, broader geopolitical uncertainties and conflicts. Credit Risk and Finance. The key site and regional approvals are
reported up to the relevant global business impairment committee for
For further details, see ‘Top and emerging risks’ on page 131. final approval of the Group’s ECL for the period. Required members of
Governance and structure the committee are the Wholesale Global Chief Corporate Credit
Officer and Chief Risk and Compliance Officer for Wealth and
We have established Group-wide credit risk management and related Personal Banking Risk, as well as the relevant global business’s Chief
IFRS 9 processes. We continue to assess the impact of economic Financial Officer and the Global Financial Controller.
developments in key markets on specific customers, customer
segments or portfolios. As credit conditions change, we take Concentration of exposure
mitigating actions, including the revision of risk appetites or limits and
(Audited)
tenors, as appropriate. In addition, we continue to evaluate the terms
under which we provide credit facilities within the context of Concentrations of credit risk arise when a number of counterparties or
individual customer requirements, the quality of the relationship, local exposures have comparable economic characteristics, or such
regulatory requirements, market practices and our local market counterparties are engaged in similar activities or operate in the same
position. geographical areas or industry sectors so that their collective ability to
meet contractual obligations is similarly affected by changes in
Credit Risk sub-function economic, political or other conditions. We use a number of controls
and measures to minimise undue concentration of exposure in our
(Audited)
portfolios across industries, countries and global businesses. These
Credit approval authorities are delegated by the Board to the Group include portfolio and counterparty limits, approval and review controls,
CEO together with the authority to sub-delegate them. The Credit and stress testing.
Risk sub-function in Group Risk and Compliance is responsible for the
key policies and processes for managing credit risk, which include Credit quality of financial instruments
formulating Group credit policies and risk rating frameworks, guiding
(Audited)
the Group’s appetite for credit risk exposures, undertaking
independent reviews and objective assessment of credit risk, and Our risk rating system facilitates the internal ratings-based approach
monitoring performance and management of portfolios. under the Basel framework adopted by the Group to support the
calculation of our minimum credit regulatory capital requirement. The
five credit quality classifications encompass a range of granular
internal credit rating grades assigned to wholesale and retail
Risk
review

[PAGE 142]

Risk review
customers, and the external ratings attributed by external agencies to Each CRR band is associated with an external rating grade by reference
debt securities. to long-run default rates for that grade, represented by the average of
issuer-weighted historical default rates. This mapping between internal
For debt securities and certain other financial instruments, external
and external ratings is indicative and may vary over time.
ratings have been aligned to the five quality classifications based upon
the mapping of related customer risk rating (‘CRR’) to external credit Retail lending
rating.
Retail lending credit quality is based on a 12-month point-in-time
Wholesale lending probability-weighted PD.
The CRR 10-grade scale summarises a more granular underlying
23-grade scale of obligor probability of default (‘PD’). All corporate
customers are rated using the 10- or 23-grade scale, depending on
the degree of sophistication of the Basel approach adopted for the
exposure.
Credit quality classification
Sovereign Other
debt securities debt securities Wholesale lending
and bills and bills and derivatives Retail lending
12-month Basel 12 month
External External Internal probability of Internal probability-
credit rating credit rating credit rating default % credit rating weighted PD %
Quality classification1,2
Strong BBB and above A- and above CRR 1 to CRR 2 0–0.169 Band 1 and 2 0.000–0.500
Good BBB- to BB BBB+ to BBB- CRR 3 0.170–0.740 Band 3 0.501–1.500
Satisfactory BB- to B and unrated BB+ to B and unrated CRR 4 to CRR 5 0.741–4.914 Band 4 and 5 1.501–20.000
Sub-standard B- to C B- to C CRR 6 to CRR 8 4.915–99.999 Band 6 20.001–99.999
Credit impaired Default Default CRR 9 to CRR 10 100 Band 7 100
1 Customer risk rating (‘CRR’).
2 12-month point-in-time probability-weighted probability of default (‘PD’).
Quality classification definitions
– ‘Strong’ exposures demonstrate a strong capacity to meet financial commitments, with negligible or low probability of default and/or low levels of
expected loss.
– ‘Good’ exposures require closer monitoring and demonstrate a good capacity to meet financial commitments, with low default risk.
– ‘Satisfactory’ exposures require closer monitoring and demonstrate an average-to-fair capacity to meet financial commitments, with moderate default risk.
– ‘Sub-standard’ exposures require varying degrees of special attention and default risk is of greater concern.
– ‘Credit-impaired’ exposures have been assessed as described in Note 1.2(i) to the financial statements.
Forborne loans and advances Wholesale and retail lending forborne loans are classified as credit
impaired until there is sufficient evidence to demonstrate a significant
(Audited)
reduction in the risk of non-payment of future cash flows, observed
Forbearance measures consist of concessions towards an obligor that over a minimum one-year period, and there are no other indicators of
is experiencing or about to experience difficulties in meeting its impairment. Any forborne loans not considered credit impaired will
financial commitments. remain forborne for a minimum of two years from the date that credit
impairment no longer applies. For wholesale and retail lending, any
We continue to class loans as forborne when we modify the forbearance measures granted on a loan already classed as forborne
contractual payment terms due to having concerns about the results in the customer being classed as credit impaired.
borrowers’ ability to meet contractual payments when they were due.
Our definition of forborne captures non-payment-related concessions, Forborne loans and recognition of expected
such as covenant waivers.
credit losses
For details of our policy on forbearance, see Note 1.2(i) in the financial
(Audited)
statements.
Forborne loans expected credit loss assessments reflect the higher
Credit quality of forborne loans
rates of losses typically experienced with these types of loans such
For wholesale lending, where payment-related forbearance measures that they are in stage 2 and stage 3. The higher rates are more
result in a diminished financial obligation, or if there are other pronounced in unsecured retail lending requiring further
indicators of impairment, the loan will be classified as credit impaired segmentation. For wholesale lending, forborne loans are typically
if it is not already so classified. All facilities with a customer, including assessed individually. Credit risk ratings are intrinsic to the
loans that have not been modified, are considered credit impaired impairment assessments. The individual impairment assessment
following the identification of a payment-related forborne loan. For takes into account the higher risk of the future non-payment inherent
retail lending, where a material payment-related concession has been in forborne loans.
granted, the loan will be classified as credit impaired. In isolation, non-
Impairment assessment
payment related forbearance measures may not result in the loan
being classified as credit impaired unless combined with other (Audited)
indicators of credit impairment. These are classed as performing
For details of our impairment policies on loans and advances and
forborne loans for both wholesale and retail lending.
financial investments, see Note 1.2(i) on the financial statements.

[PAGE 143]

Write-off of loans and advances On a constant currency basis, stage 3 gross loans and advances to
customers at 31 December 2024 increased by $3.9bn. The increase in
(Audited)
stage 3 exposures was driven by defaults in the commercial real
Under IFRS 9, write-off should occur when there is no reasonable estate portfolio in Hong Kong, which are generally well collateralised.
expectation of recovering further cash flows from the financial asset. There was a decrease in the associated allowance for ECL due to
write-offs of heavily-impaired exposures.
This principle does not prohibit early write-off, which is defined in
local policies to ensure effectiveness in the management of On a constant currency basis, the allowance for ECL in relation to
customers in the collections process. loans and advances to customers decreased by $0.9bn from
31 December 2023. This was attributable to:
Unsecured personal facilities, including credit cards, are generally
written off at between 150 and 210 days past due. The standard – a $0.8bn decrease in wholesale loans and advances to customers,
period runs until the end of the month in which the account becomes which included a $0.7bn decrease in stage 3 and a $0.1bn
180 days contractually delinquent. However, in exceptional decrease in stages 1 and 2; and
circumstances, to avoid unfair customer outcomes, deliver customer
– a $0.1bn decrease in personal loans and advances to customers
duty or meet regulatory expectations, the period may be extended
driven by stages 1 and 2.
further.
The ECL charge for 2024 was $3.4bn, inclusive of recoveries. The
For secured facilities, write-off should occur upon repossession of
ECL charge comprised: $2.1bn in respect of wholesale lending, of
collateral, receipt of proceeds via settlement, or determination that
which the stage 3 charge was $1.6bn; $1.2bn in respect of personal
recovery of the collateral will not be pursued. Where these assets are
lending, of which $0.9bn were in stage 3; and $0.1bn in respect of
maintained on the balance sheet beyond 60 months of consecutive
other assets and debt instruments measured at FVOCI.
delinquency-driven default, the prospect of recovery is reassessed.
Wholesale lending charges were recognised mainly in our legal
Recovery activity, on both secured and unsecured assets, may
entities in Hong Kong ($1.0bn). While the mainland China commercial
continue after write-off.
real estate sector remained subdued, there were limited new defaults
Any unsecured exposures that are not written off at 180 days past and lower total ECL charges of $0.4bn during the period ($1.0bn
due, and any secured exposures that are in ‘default’ status for 60 during 2023). ECL charges in the Hong Kong commercial real estate
months or greater but are not written off, are subject to additional sector excluding exposure to mainland China borrowers of $0.1bn
monitoring via the appropriate governance forums. during the period were also low due to the limited impact from
defaults, driven by the high level of collateralisation in the portfolio.
Credit risk in 2024 Personal lending charges reflected higher charges in our legal entity in
Mexico, mainly in our unsecured portfolio, due to portfolio growth and
At 31 December 2024, gross loans and advances to banks and unemployment trends. In addition, there were higher charges in our
customers of $1,042bn decreased by $20.1bn on a reported basis legal entities in the UK and Hong Kong as a result of portfolio growth.
compared with 31 December 2023. Gross loans and advances to
At 31 December 2024, gross other financial assets measured at
customers decreased by $9.2bn while gross loans and advances to
amortised cost of $828.6bn decreased by $131.7bn on a reported
banks decreased by $10.9bn. This included total adverse foreign
basis compared with 31 December 2023. This included total adverse
exchange movements of $26.2bn.
foreign exchange movements of $30.7bn.
On a constant currency basis, the increase of $6.1bn was driven by a
On a constant currency basis, the decrease of $101.0bn was mainly
$9.6bn rise in personal loans and advances to customers and a $3.0bn
driven by a $91.9bn decrease in assets held for sale, due to the
rise in wholesale loans and advances to customers. These were partly
offset by a $6.5bn decrease in loans and advances to banks. completion of the disposals of our banking business in Canada and
our retail banking operations in France.
The rise in personal loans and advances to customers was driven by
mortgage growth (up $7.5bn), mainly in HSBC UK (up $4.5bn), in our Income statement movements are analysed further on page 90.
legal entities in the US (up $2.7bn) and in Mexico (up $0.3bn). There
While credit risk arises across most of our balance sheet, ECL have
was a further increase in other personal lending (up $2.1bn), mainly in
typically been recognised on loans and advances to customers and
our entities in Europe (up $1.1bn) and in Asia (up $1.0bn).
banks, in addition to securitisation exposures and other structured
The rise in wholesale loans and advances to customers was driven by products. As a result, our disclosures focus primarily on these two
an increase in balances with non-bank financial institutions (up areas. For further details of:
$9.6bn), mainly in HSBC Bank plc (up $4.2bn) and in our legal entities
– maximum exposure to credit risk, see page 148;
in Asia (up $2.2bn), in the US (up $1.2bn), in HSBC UK (up $1.0bn)
and in the Middle East (up $0.8bn). This was partly offset by a $6.6bn – measurement uncertainty and sensitivity analysis of ECL
reduction in corporate and commercial balances, observed mainly in estimates, see page 148;
our legal entities in the US (down $2.9bn) and in Asia (down $2.4bn).
– reconciliation of changes in gross carrying/nominal amount and
The decrease in loans and advances to banks was driven by lower allowances for loans and advances to banks and customers including
central bank balances and money market lending balances in our legal loan commitments and financial guarantees, see page 161;
entities in Asia (down $9.1bn), partly offset by higher balances in our – credit quality, see page 166;
legal entities in the Middle East (up $3.6bn).
– total wholesale lending for loans and advances to banks and
The movement in gross loans and advances to banks and customers customers by stage distribution, see page 171;
included a $3.1bn decrease on a constant currency basis due to the
– wholesale lending collateral, see page 181;
reclassification of businesses into 'assets held for sale' during the
period. – total personal lending for loans and advances to customers at
amortised cost by stage distribution, see page 185; and
At 31 December 2024, the allowance for ECL of $10.3bn decreased
– personal lending collateral, see page 194.
by $1.7bn compared with 31 December 2023, including favourable
foreign exchange movements of $0.5bn. The $10.3bn allowance
comprised $9.8bn in respect of assets held at amortised cost, $0.4bn
in respect of loan commitments and financial guarantees, and $0.1bn
in respect of debt instruments measured at fair value through other
comprehensive income (‘FVOCI’).
Risk
review

[PAGE 144]

Risk review
Summary of credit risk
The following disclosure presents the gross carrying/nominal amount of financial instruments to which the impairment requirements in IFRS 9
are applied and the associated allowance for ECL.
Summary of financial instruments to which the impairment requirements in IFRS 9 are applied
(Audited)
31 Dec 2024 At 31 Dec 2023
Gross carrying/ Allowance for Gross carrying/ Allowance for
nominal amount ECL1 nominal amount ECL1
$m $m $m $m
Loans and advances to customers at amortised cost 940,373 (9,715) 949,609 (11,074)
Loans and advances to banks at amortised cost 102,052 (13) 112,917 (15)
Other financial assets measured at amortised cost 828,580 (92) 960,271 (422)
– cash and balances at central banks 267,674 — 285,868 —
– Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness 42,293 — 42,024 —
– reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading 252,549 — 252,217 —
– financial investments 153,982 (9) 148,346 (20)
– assets held for sale2 3,273 (4) 103,186 (324)
– prepayments, accrued income and other assets3 108,809 (79) 128,630 (78)
Total gross carrying amount on-balance sheet 1,871,005 (9,820) 2,022,797 (11,511)
Loans and other credit-related commitments 619,367 (348) 661,015 (367)
Financial guarantees 16,998 (29) 17,009 (39)
Total nominal amount off-balance sheet4 636,365 (377) 678,024 (406)
2,507,370 (10,197) 2,700,821 (11,917)
Memorandum Memorandum
allowance for allowance for
Fair value ECL5 Fair value ECL5
$m $m $m $m
Debt instruments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income
(‘FVOCI’) 346,124 (54) 302,348 (97)
1 The total ECL is recognised in the loss allowance for the financial asset unless the total ECL exceeds the gross carrying amount of the financial asset, in which
case the ECL is recognised as a provision.
2 For further details on gross carrying amounts and allowances for ECL related to assets held for sale, see ‘Assets held for sale’ on page 146. At 31 December
2024, the gross carrying amount comprised $1,113m of loans and advances to customers and banks (2023: $84,075m) and $2,160m of other financial assets at
amortised cost (2023: $19,111m). The corresponding allowance for ECL comprised $4m of loans and advances to customers and banks (2023: $303m) and
$0.3m of other financial assets at amortised cost (2023: $21m).
3 Includes only those financial instruments that are subject to the impairment requirements of IFRS 9. ‘Prepayments, accrued income and other assets’ as
presented within the consolidated balance sheet on page 343 comprises both financial and non-financial assets, including cash collateral and settlement
accounts. It also includes ‘Items in the course of collection from other banks’ which was presented separately in 2023.
4 Represents the maximum amount at risk should the contracts be fully drawn upon and clients default.
5 Debt instruments measured at FVOCI continue to be measured at fair value with the allowance for ECL as a memorandum item. Change in ECL is recognised in
‘Change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges’ in the income statement.
The following table provides an overview of the Group’s credit risk by stage and industry, and the associated ECL coverage. The financial assets
recorded in each stage have the following characteristics:
– Stage 1: These financial assets are unimpaired and without significant increase in credit risk on which a 12-month allowance for ECL is
recognised.
– Stage 2: A significant increase in credit risk has been experienced on these financial assets since initial recognition for which a lifetime ECL is
recognised.
– Stage 3: There is objective evidence of impairment and the financial assets are therefore considered to be in default or otherwise credit
impaired on which a lifetime ECL is recognised.
– POCI: Financial assets that are purchased or originated at a deep discount are seen to reflect the incurred credit losses on which a lifetime
ECL is recognised.

[PAGE 145]

Summary of credit risk (excluding debt instruments measured at FVOCI) by stage distribution and ECL coverage by industry sector at
31 December 2024
(Audited)
Gross carrying/nominal amount1 Allowance for ECL ECL coverage %
Stage Stage Stage Stage Stage Stage Stage Stage Stage
1 2 3 POCI2 Total 1 2 3 POCI2 Total 1 2 3 POCI2 Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m % % % % %
Loans and
advances to
customers at
amortised cost 824,420 93,248 22,615 90 940,373 (1,078) (2,546) (6,040) (51) (9,715) 0.1 2.7 26.7 56.7 1.0
– personal 403,746 39,919 3,560 — 447,225 (570) (1,158) (796) — (2,524) 0.1 2.9 22.4 — 0.6
– corporate and
commercial 340,987 51,231 18,376 90 410,684 (463) (1,358) (4,883) (51) (6,755) 0.1 2.7 26.6 56.7 1.6
– non-bank
financial
institutions 79,687 2,098 679 — 82,464 (45) (30) (361) — (436) 0.1 1.4 53.2 — 0.5
Loans and
advances to
banks at
amortised cost 101,852 198 2 — 102,052 (9) (2) (2) — (13) — 1.0 100.0 — —
Other financial
assets
measured at
amortised cost 826,621 1,806 153 — 828,580 (64) (5) (23) — (92) — 0.3 15.0 — —
Loan and other
credit-related
commitments 597,231 21,175 958 3 619,367 (137) (121) (90) — (348) — 0.6 9.4 — 0.1
– personal 251,489 1,680 86 — 253,255 (17) — (5) — (22) — — 5.8 — —
– corporate and
commercial 231,201 17,453 838 3 249,495 (111) (116) (83) — (310) — 0.7 9.9 — 0.1
– financial 114,541 2,042 34 — 116,617 (9) (5) (2) — (16) — 0.2 5.9 — —
Financial
guarantees 15,353 1,397 248 — 16,998 (8) (5) (16) — (29) 0.1 0.4 6.5 — 0.2
– personal 1,416 11 — — 1,427 — — — — — — — — — —
– corporate and
commercial 10,048 1,232 195 — 11,475 (7) (5) (15) — (27) 0.1 0.4 7.7 — 0.2
– financial 3,889 154 53 — 4,096 (1) — (1) — (2) — — 1.9 — —
At 31 Dec
2024 2,365,477 117,824 23,976 93 2,507,370 (1,296) (2,679) (6,171) (51) (10,197) 0.1 2.3 25.7 54.8 0.4
1 Represents the maximum amount at risk should the contracts be fully drawn upon and clients default.
2 Purchased or originated credit-impaired (‘POCI’).
Unless identified at an earlier stage, all financial assets are deemed to assets by those less than 30 DPD and greater than 30 DPD and
have suffered a significant increase in credit risk when they are 30 therefore presents those financial assets classified as stage 2 due to
days past due (‘DPD’) and are transferred from stage 1 to stage 2. ageing (30 DPD) and those identified at an earlier stage (less than 30
The following disclosure presents the ageing of stage 2 financial DPD).
Stage 2 days past due analysis at 31 December 2024
(Audited)
Gross carrying amount Allowance for ECL ECL coverage %
Up-to- 1 to 29 30 and Up-to- 1 to 29 30 and Up-to- 1 to 29 30 and
Stage 2 date DPD1 > DPD1 Stage 2 date DPD1 > DPD1 Stage 2 date DPD1 > DPD1
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m % % % %
Loans and advances to
customers at amortised
cost 93,248 90,157 1,888 1,203 (2,546) (2,147) (192) (207) 2.7 2.4 10.2 17.2
– personal 39,919 37,676 1,361 882 (1,158) (799) (169) (190) 2.9 2.1 12.4 21.5
– corporate and
commercial 51,231 50,486 506 239 (1,358) (1,326) (21) (11) 2.7 2.6 4.2 4.6
– non-bank financial
institutions 2,098 1,995 21 82 (30) (22) (2) (6) 1.4 1.1 9.5 7.3
Loans and advances to
banks at amortised cost 198 198 — — (2) (2) — — 1.0 1.0 — —
Other financial assets
measured at amortised
cost 1,806 1,794 3 9 (5) (5) — — 0.3 0.3 — —
1 The days past due amounts presented above are on a contractual basis.
Risk
review

[PAGE 146]

Risk review
Summary of credit risk (excluding debt instruments measured at FVOCI) by stage distribution and ECL coverage by industry sector at
31 December 2023
(Audited)
Gross carrying/nominal amount1 Allowance for ECL ECL coverage %
Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI2 Total Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI2 Total Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI2 Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m % % % % %
Loans and
advances to
customers at
amortised
cost 809,384 120,871 19,273 81 949,609 (1,130) (2,964) (6,950) (30) (11,074) 0.1 2.5 36.1 37.0 1.2
– personal 396,534 47,483 3,505 — 447,522 (579) (1,434) (854) — (2,867) 0.1 3.0 24.4 — 0.6
– corporate
and
commercial 342,878 69,738 14,958 81 427,655 (499) (1,500) (5,774) (30) (7,803) 0.1 2.2 38.6 37.0 1.8
– non-bank
financial
institutions 69,972 3,650 810 — 74,432 (52) (30) (322) — (404) 0.1 0.8 39.8 — 0.5
Loans and
advances to
banks at
amortised
cost 111,479 1,436 2 — 112,917 (10) (3) (2) — (15) — 0.2 100.0 — —
Other
financial
assets
measured at
amortised
cost 946,873 12,734 664 — 960,271 (109) (132) (181) — (422) — 1.0 27.3 — —
Loan and
other credit-
related
commitments 630,949 28,922 1,140 4 661,015 (153) (128) (86) — (367) — 0.4 7.5 — 0.1
– personal 253,183 3,459 355 — 256,997 (23) — (2) — (25) — — 0.6 — —
– corporate
and
commercial 246,210 20,928 736 4 267,878 (120) (119) (83) — (322) — 0.6 11.3 — 0.1
– financial 131,556 4,535 49 — 136,140 (10) (9) (1) — (20) — 0.2 2.0 — —
Financial
guarantees 14,746 1,879 384 — 17,009 (7) (7) (25) — (39) — 0.4 6.5 — 0.2
– personal 1,106 13 — — 1,119 — — — — — — — — — —
– corporate
and
commercial 10,157 1,290 330 — 11,777 (6) (6) (24) — (36) 0.1 0.5 7.3 — 0.3
– financial 3,483 576 54 — 4,113 (1) (1) (1) — (3) — 0.2 1.9 — 0.1
At 31 Dec
2023 2,513,431 165,842 21,463 85 2,700,821 (1,409) (3,234) (7,244) (30) (11,917) 0.1 2.0 33.8 35.3 0.4
1 Represents the maximum amount at risk should the contracts be fully drawn upon and clients default.
2 Purchased or originated credit-impaired (‘POCI’).
Stage 2 days past due analysis at 31 December 2023
(Audited)
Gross carrying amount Allowance for ECL ECL coverage %
Up-to- 1 to 29 30 and > Stage Up-to- 1 to 29 30 and > Stage Up-to- 1 to 29 30 and >
Stage 2 date DPD1 DPD1 2 date DPD1 DPD1 2 date DPD1 DPD1
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m % % % %
Loans and advances to
customers at amortised cost 120,871 116,320 2,571 1,980 (2,964) (2,458) (245) (261) 2.5 2.1 9.5 13.2
– personal 47,483 44,634 1,785 1,064 (1,434) (974) (214) (246) 3.0 2.2 12.0 23.1
– corporate and commercial 69,738 68,446 697 595 (1,500) (1,454) (31) (15) 2.2 2.1 4.4 2.5
– non-bank financial
institutions 3,650 3,240 89 321 (30) (30) — — 0.8 0.9 — —
Loans and advances to banks
at amortised cost 1,436 1,424 — 12 (3) (3) — — 0.2 0.2 — —
Other financial assets
measured at amortised cost 12,734 12,417 171 146 (132) (113) (9) (10) 1.0 0.9 5.3 6.8
1 The days past due amounts presented above are on a contractual basis.

[PAGE 147]

Stage 2 decomposition
The following table presents the stage 2 decomposition of gross The qualitative classification primarily accounts for customer risk
carrying amount and allowances for ECL for loans and advances to rating (‘CRR’) deterioration, watch-and-worry and retail management
customers and banks. It also sets out the reasons why an exposure is judgemental adjustments.
classified as stage 2 and therefore presented as a significant increase
A summary of our current policies and practices for the significant increase
in credit risk at 31 December 2024.
in credit risk is set out in ‘Summary of material accounting policies’ on
page 359.
The quantitative classification shows gross carrying amount and
allowances for ECL for which the applicable reporting date probability
of default (‘PD’) measure exceeds defined quantitative thresholds for
retail and wholesale exposures, as set out in Note 1.2 ‘Summary of
material accounting policies’, on page 359.
Loans and advances to customers and banks1
At 31 Dec 2024
Loans and advances to customers Loans and
of which: advances
other Corporate Non-bank to banks at
first lien personal and financial amortised
Personal mortgages credit cards lending commercial institutions cost Total stage 2
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Quantitative 36,356 30,992 2,904 2,460 37,787 1,658 176 75,977
Qualitative 3,452 3,107 85 260 13,327 438 22 17,239
of which: forbearance 175 70 40 65 1,086 3 — 1,264
30 DPD backstop2 111 78 2 31 117 2 — 230
Total gross carrying amount 39,919 34,177 2,991 2,751 51,231 2,098 198 93,446
Quantitative (1,118) (121) (651) (346) (1,124) (28) — (2,270)
Qualitative (35) (8) (9) (18) (229) (2) (2) (268)
of which: forbearance (5) — (1) (4) (12) — — (17)
30 DPD backstop2 (5) (1) — (4) (5) — — (10)
Total allowance for ECL (1,158) (130) (660) (368) (1,358) (30) (2) (2,548)
ECL coverage % 2.9 0.4 22.1 13.4 2.7 1.4 1.0 2.7
Residual average life3 (in years) 17.0 19.5 <1.0 3.6 2.7 1.9 <1.0
At 31 Dec 2023
Quantitative 35,742 31,178 1,940 2,624 53,034 2,955 781 92,512
Qualitative 11,678 7,077 2,477 2,124 16,241 653 642 29,214
of which: forbearance 171 69 34 68 982 2 — 1,155
30 DPD backstop2 63 32 2 29 463 42 13 581
Total gross carrying amount 47,483 38,287 4,419 4,777 69,738 3,650 1,436 122,307
Quantitative (1,103) (149) (554) (400) (1,225) (24) (1) (2,353)
Qualitative (324) (50) (142) (132) (270) (6) (2) (602)
of which: forbearance (4) — (1) (3) (11) — — (15)
30 DPD backstop2 (7) (1) (1) (5) (5) — — (12)
Total allowance for ECL (1,434) (200) (697) (537) (1,500) (30) (3) (2,967)
ECL coverage % 3.0 0.5 15.8 11.2 2.2 0.8 0.2 2.4
Residual average life3 (in years) 16.0 19.3 <1.0 4.1 2.5 1.2 <1.0
1 Where balances satisfy more than one of the above three criteria for determining a significant increase in credit risk, the corresponding gross carrying amount
and allowance for ECL have been assigned in order of categories presented.
2 Days past due (‘DPD’).
3 Calculated as the difference between final contractual maturities and the reporting date, weighted based on the contribution of the instrument to the stage 2
total gross carrying amount of the corresponding product or sector.
Risk
review

[PAGE 148]

Risk review
Assets held for sale
(Audited)
At 31 December 2024, the most material balances held for sale arose Although there was a reclassification on the balance sheet, there was
from our business in South Africa and our private banking business in no separate income statement reclassification. As a result, charges
Germany. for changes in expected credit losses and other credit impairment
charges shown in the credit risk disclosures include charges relating
Disclosures relating to assets held for sale are provided in the
to financial assets classified as ‘assets held for sale’.
following credit risk tables, primarily where the disclosure is relevant
to the measurement of these financial assets: ‘Loans and other credit-related commitments’, ‘financial guarantees’
and ‘Debt instruments measured at fair value through other
– ‘Maximum exposure to credit risk’ (page 148); and
comprehensive income’ as reported in credit disclosures, also include
– ‘Distribution of financial instruments by credit quality at exposures and allowances relating to financial assets classified as
31 December’ (page 166); ‘assets held for sale’.
Loans and advances to customers and banks measured at amortised cost
(Audited)
2024 2023
Total gross loans Allowance Total gross loans Allowance
and advances for ECL and advances for ECL
$m $m $m $m
As reported 1,042,425 (9,728) 1,062,526 (11,089)
Reported in ‘Assets held for sale’ 1,113 (4) 84,075 (303)
At 31 December 1,043,538 (9,732) 1,146,601 (11,392)
At 31 December 2024, gross loans and advances of our business in These lending balances are part of associated disposal groups that are
South Africa were $660m and the related allowance for ECL was measured in their entirety at the lower of carrying amount and fair
$4m. Gross loans and advances of our private banking business in value less costs to sell. Any difference between the carrying amount
Germany were $309m and of our French life insurance business were of these assets and their sales price is part of the overall gain or loss
$144m, both with negligible allowance for ECL. on the associated disposal group as a whole.
Lending balances held for sale continue to be measured at amortised For further details of the carrying amount and the fair value at 31 December
cost less allowances for impairment and, therefore, such carrying 2024 of loans and advances to banks and customers classified as held for
amounts may differ from fair value. sale, see Note 23 on the financial statements.
Gross loans and allowance for ECL on loans and advances to customers and banks reported in ‘Assets held for sale’
(Audited)
German Private Banking
South Africa Other
Business Total
Gross Gross Gross Gross
carrying Allowance carrying Allowance carrying Allowance carrying Allowance
amount for ECL amount for ECL amount for ECL amount for ECL
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Loans and advances to customers
at amortised cost 660 (4) 309 — — — 969 (4)
– personal — — 130 — — — 130 —
– corporate and commercial 586 (4) 19 — — — 605 (4)
– non-bank financial institutions 74 — 160 — — — 234 —
Loans and advances to banks at
amortised cost — — — — 144 — 144 —
At 31 Dec 20241 660 (4) 309 — 144 — 1,113 (4)
Banking business in Retail banking operations in
Canada France Other Total
Gross Gross Gross Gross
carrying Allowance carrying Allowance carrying Allowance carrying Allowance
amount for ECL amount for ECL amount for ECL amount for ECL
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Loans and advances to customers
at amortised cost 56,349 (220) 16,984 (82) 255 (1) 73,588 (303)
– personal 27,071 (95) 13,920 (79) 140 (1) 41,131 (175)
– corporate and commercial 27,789 (120) 3,012 (3) — — 30,801 (123)
– non-bank financial institutions 1,489 (5) 52 — 115 — 1,656 (5)
Loans and advances to banks at
amortised cost 154 — 10,333 — — — 10,487 —
At 31 Dec 2023 56,503 (220) 27,317 (82) 255 (1) 84,075 (303)
1 The table above does not include disposals completed during 2024 including the sale of our retail banking operations in France completed on 1 January 2024 and
our banking business in Canada completed on 28 March 2024. The sale of our business in Argentina was announced in the first quarter of 2024 and completed
on 6 December 2024. The gross loans and advances to customers and banks in Argentina were $1,760m and the associated allowance for ECL was $34m at
31 March 2024. For more details, please refer to business disposals as disclosed in Note 23 on page 411.

[PAGE 149]

The table below analyses the amount of ECL (charges)/releases arising from assets held for sale. The charges during the period relate to our
businesses in Canada ($41m) and in Argentina ($40m).
Changes in expected credit losses and other credit impairment
(Audited)
2024 2023
$m $m
ECL (charges)/releases arising from:
– assets held for sale (81) (49)
– assets not held for sale (3,333) (3,398)
Year ended 31 Dec (3,414) (3,447)
Credit exposure
Maximum exposure to credit risk
(Audited)
This section provides information on balance sheet items and their offsets as well as loan and other credit-related commitments. Commentary
on consolidated balance sheet movements in 2024 is provided on page 95.
‘Maximum exposure to credit risk’ table Other credit risk mitigants
The following table presents our maximum exposure before taking While not disclosed as an offset in the following ‘Maximum exposure
account of any collateral held or other credit enhancements (unless to credit risk’ table, other arrangements are in place that reduce our
such enhancements meet accounting offsetting requirements). maximum exposure to credit risk. These include a charge over
collateral on borrowers’ specific assets, such as residential properties,
The table excludes trading assets, financial assets designated and
collateral held in the form of financial instruments that are not held on
otherwise mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss,
the balance sheet and short positions in securities. In addition, for
and financial investments measured at fair value through other
financial assets held as part of linked insurance/investment contracts
comprehensive income as their carrying amount best represents the
the credit risk is predominantly borne by the policyholder. See page
net exposure to credit risk. Equity securities are also excluded as
358 and Note 31 on the financial statements for further details of
they are not subject to credit risk.
collateral in respect of certain loans and advances and derivatives.
For the financial assets recognised on the balance sheet, the
Collateral available to mitigate credit risk is disclosed in the ‘Collateral’
maximum exposure to credit risk equals their carrying amount and is
section on page 181.
net of the allowance for ECL. For financial guarantees and other
guarantees granted, it is the maximum amount that we would have
to pay if the guarantees were called upon. For loan commitments
and other credit-related commitments, it is generally the full amount
of the committed facilities.
The offset in the table relates to amounts where there is a legally
enforceable right of offset in the event of counterparty default and
where, as a result, there is a net exposure for credit risk purposes.
However, as there is no intention to settle these balances on a net
basis under normal circumstances, they do not qualify for net
presentation for accounting purposes. No offset has been applied to
off-balance sheet collateral. In the case of derivatives, the offset
column also includes collateral received in cash and other financial
assets.
Risk
review

[PAGE 150]

Risk review
Maximum exposure to credit risk
(Audited)
2024 2023
Maximum exposure Offset Net Maximum exposure Offset Net
$m $m $m $m $m $m
Loans and advances to customers held at amortised cost 930,658 (22,822) 907,836 938,535 (22,607) 915,928
– personal 444,701 (2,256) 442,445 444,655 (2,470) 442,185
– corporate and commercial 403,929 (18,897) 385,032 419,852 (18,771) 401,081
– non-bank financial institutions 82,028 (1,669) 80,359 74,028 (1,366) 72,662
Loans and advances to banks at amortised cost 102,039 — 102,039 112,902 — 112,902
Other financial assets held at amortised cost 854,427 (4,383) 850,044 973,316 (13,919) 959,397
– cash and balances at central banks 267,674 — 267,674 285,868 — 285,868
– Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness 42,293 — 42,293 42,024 — 42,024
– reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading 252,549 (4,383) 248,166 252,217 (13,919) 238,298
– financial investments 153,973 — 153,973 148,326 — 148,326
– assets held for sale 27,234 — 27,234 114,134 — 114,134
– prepayments, accrued income and other assets 110,704 — 110,704 130,747 — 130,747
Derivatives 268,637 (254,257) 14,380 229,714 (222,059) 7,655
Total on-balance sheet exposure to credit risk 2,155,761 (281,462) 1,874,299 2,254,467 (258,585) 1,995,882
Total off-balance sheet 970,610 — 970,610 1,007,885 — 1,007,885
– financial and other guarantees 109,380 — 109,380 111,102 — 111,102
– loan and other credit-related commitments 861,230 — 861,230 896,783 — 896,783
At 31 Dec 3,126,371 (281,462) 2,844,909 3,262,352 (258,585) 3,003,767
Concentration of exposure
We have a number of global businesses with a broad range of Limited, HSBC Bank plc, HSBC Bank Middle East Limited and
products. We operate in a number of geographical markets with the HSBC Bank USA, by the location of the lending branch), see page
majority of our exposures in Asia and Europe. 170 for wholesale lending and page 184 for personal lending.
For an analysis of:
Credit deterioration of financial
– financial investments, see Note 16 on the financial statements;
instruments
– trading assets, see Note 11 on the financial statements;
(Audited)
– derivatives, see page 184 and Note 15 on the financial statements;
and A summary of our current policies and practices regarding the identification,
treatment and measurement of stage 1, stage 2, stage 3 (credit impaired)
– loans and advances by industry sector and by the location of the and POCI financial instruments can be found in Note 1.2 on the financial
principal operations of the lending subsidiary (or, in the case of the statements.
operations of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation
Measurement uncertainty and sensitivity analysis of ECL estimates
(Audited)
The recognition and measurement of ECL involves the use of Methodology
judgement and estimation. We form multiple economic scenarios,
apply these forecasts to credit risk models to estimate future credit At 31 December 2024, four scenarios were used to capture the latest
losses, and probability weight the results to determine an unbiased economic expectations and to articulate management’s view of the
ECL estimate. range of risks and potential outcomes. Each scenario is updated with
the latest economic forecasts and distributional estimates every
Management assessed the current economic environment, reviewed quarter.
the latest forecasts and discussed key risks before selecting the
appropriate economic scenarios and their weightings. Three scenarios, the Upside, Central and Downside, are drawn from
consensus forecasts, market data and distributional estimates of the
The Central scenario is constructed to reflect the latest entire range of economic outcomes. The fourth scenario, the
macroeconomic expectations. Outer scenarios incorporate the Downside 2, represents management’s view of severe downside
crystallisation of economic and geopolitical risks. risks. Consensus estimates are deployed as conditioning variables in a
proprietary expansion of the scenario variables.
In the fourth quarter of 2024, the four economic scenarios were
modified to reflect heightened policy uncertainty following the US The Central scenario is deemed the ‘most likely’ scenario, and usually
election and to overcome any lags in consensus forecasts. An attracts the largest probability weighting. It is created using consensus
adjustment factor based on more recent views of expected tariffs and forecasts, which is the average of a panel of external forecasts.
other policy changes was modelled and then applied to each of the
economic scenarios. The effect was to lower growth expectations in The outer scenarios represent the tails of the distribution and are less
our major markets, while the impact on inflation and interest rates likely to occur. The consensus Upside and Downside scenarios are
was varied. created with reference to forecast probability distributions for select
markets that capture economists’ views of the entire range of
Management judgemental adjustments are used where modelled economic outcomes. In the later years of these scenarios, projections
ECL does not fully reflect the identified risks and related uncertainty, revert to long-term consensus trend expectations. Reversion to trend
or to capture significant late-breaking events. expectations is done with reference to historically observed quarterly
changes in the values of macroeconomic variables.
At 31 December 2024, there was an overall reduction in management
judgemental adjustments compared with 31 December 2023, as
modelled outcomes better reflected the key risks at 31 December 2024.

[PAGE 151]

The fourth scenario, the Downside 2, represents management’s view of The scenarios used to calculate ECL are described below.
severe downside risks. It is a globally consistent, narrative-driven
scenario that explores a more extreme economic outcome than those The consensus Central scenario
captured by the consensus scenarios. In this scenario, variables do not, HSBC’s Central scenario reflects expectations for slower growth and
by design, revert to long-term trend expectations and may instead higher inflation and unemployment across many of our key markets.
explore alternative states of equilibrium, where economic variables move
permanently away from past trends. Expectations of lower GDP growth during 2025 are driven by the
assumed effects of higher tariffs, which impede trade flows, weaken
The consensus Downside and the consensus Upside scenarios are each consumption and deter investment. In the scenario, the US applies tariffs
constructed to be consistent with a 10% probability. The Downside 2 is on key trading partners, focusing on mainland China and Mexico at the
calibrated to a 5% probability. The Central scenario is assigned the outset of the new administration’s term, before moving attention to
remaining 75%. This weighting scheme is deemed appropriate for the other trading partners. Countries are expected to respond in kind. As a
unbiased estimation of ECL in most circumstances. However, direct consequence of tariffs, trade growth is expected to be lower,
management may depart from this probability-based scenario weighting which in turn weighs on GDP growth.
approach when the economic outlook and forecasts are determined to
be particularly uncertain and risks are elevated. Mainland China, Hong Kong and Mexico experience the greatest
negative consequences given their deeper trade and financial
For the fourth quarter of 2024, we assessed that consensus forecasts interlinkages, with the US economy. Indirect consequences from tariffs
and distributional estimates did not adequately reflect the dampen growth elsewhere. Tariffs, or the threat of them, increases
consequences of the US election on the global economic outlook. uncertainty, leading to lower confidence and reduced investment.
Due to the lag in forecasts there was increased uncertainty as to how
tariffs would be implemented and economic policy would change. As Tighter restrictions on immigration into the US are also expected to
such, scenarios have been constructed using the described standard reduce the size of the labour force, putting upward pressure on wage
methodology and an adjustment – to account for policy changes – growth. At the same time, higher tariff rates drive US inflation. Higher
applied. The adjustment was based on a modelled update to the inflation is assumed to erode purchasing power and reduces GDP
Central scenario and incorporated a detailed narrative of US economic growth. In other markets, including in Mexico, higher inflation is also
policy proposals, including specific tariff rates. The modelled results expected due to currency depreciation. The higher projected rates of
were then layered onto the Central scenario, which resulted in inflation ensure that central banks are expected to slow the pace of
changes to most variables. To quantify the impact, the adjustment interest rate reductions. The exception is in mainland China, where
reduces GDP growth in our key markets by an average of 30bps and the PBoC cuts interest rates as the excess of domestic supply is
50bps respectively, in the first two years of the Central scenario expected to become more acute and drives prices lower.
forecast. Outer scenarios were adjusted in parallel.
Global GDP is expected to grow by 2.5% in 2025 in the Central
The scenario adjustment entailed no change in scenario probability scenario, and the average rate of global GDP growth is forecast to be
weights, which remained in line with our Forward Economic Guidance 2.6% over the five-year forecast period. This is below the average
(’FEG’) framework. Uncertainties relating to the policy outlook have been growth rate over the five-year period prior to the onset of the pandemic
addressed in the scenarios directly. Measures of dispersion and of 2.9%.
uncertainty have remained low but may reflect lags in the consensus
The key features of our Central scenario are:
economic forecasting process.
– GDP growth rates across the majority of our main markets are
Scenarios produced to calculate ECL are aligned to HSBC’s top and
expected to slow in 2025 and 2026, due to the implementation of
emerging risks.
higher tariffs as well as underlying structural weaknesses in some
Description of economic scenarios economies. The most significant slowdowns in activity are expected
to occur in the markets with the highest trade dependence with the
The economic assumptions presented in this section have been
US. Elevated interest rates and higher price levels are also expected
formed by HSBC with reference to external forecasts and estimates,
to continue to weigh on some consumer and corporate segments.
specifically for the purpose of calculating ECL.
– In most markets, unemployment is forecast to rise moderately in
Forecasts may change and remain subject to uncertainty. Outer 2025 as economic activity slows, although it will remain low by
scenarios are designed to capture the potential crystallisation of key historical standards.
economic and financial risks and alternative paths for economic
– Inflation is forecast to increase in several of our main markets, as a
variables.
result of tariffs, even as services price inflation is expected to ease as
In our key markets, the Central scenario incorporates potential wage growth moderates. However, inflation largely remains within
impacts from anticipated changes to US economic and trade policy, central banks’ target ranges from 2025. The main exceptions are
including higher tariffs. The overall effect of the adjustment in our key Hong Kong and mainland China, where inflation is expected to remain
markets is to lower GDP and raise inflation and unemployment subdued, despite higher tariffs, due to weak domestic demand.
estimates, relative to the consensus. Consequently, GDP growth and – Housing market conditions remain mixed, with price weakness
unemployment forecasts have deteriorated in the fourth quarter of expected to persist in Hong Kong and mainland China, stronger
2024, compared with the fourth quarter of 2023. With regards to growth in the UAE and Mexico, and more muted price growth in the
monetary policy, the expected path for interest rates in many of our UK, US and France. High inventory levels remain the biggest drag on
markets is based on market futures. Interest rate expectations have Hong Kong and mainland China residential property and this is
increased relative to the fourth quarter of 2023, with fewer rate cuts expected to lead to another year of price declines in 2025, before a
forecast. The exception is mainland China, where the headwinds to gradual recovery from 2026.
growth ensure that forecast interest rates are lower.
– Challenging conditions are also forecast to continue in certain
At the end of 2024, risks to the economic outlook included a number segments of the commercial property sector in a number of our key
of significant geopolitical issues. Within our Downside scenarios, the markets. Structural changes to demand in the office segment in
economic consequences from the crystallisation of those risks were particular have driven lower valuations.
captured by higher commodity and goods prices, the re-acceleration
– Policy interest rates in key markets are forecast to gradually decline
of inflation, a further rise in interest rates and a global recession.
further in 2025. In the longer term, they are expected to remain at a
higher level than in recent years.
– The Brent crude oil price is forecast to average around $69 per barrel
over the projection period.
Risk
review

[PAGE 152]

Risk review
The Central scenario was created with forecasts available in late November, and reviewed continually until the end of December 2024. In accordance
with HSBC’s scenario framework, a probability weight of 75% has been assigned to the Central scenario across all major markets.
The following tables describe key macroeconomic variables in the consensus Central scenario.
Consensus Central scenario 2025–2029 (as at 4Q24)
UK US Hong Kong Mainland China France UAE Mexico
GDP (annual average growth rate, %)
2025 1.2 2.0 1.7 4.0 0.9 4.4 0.9
2026 1.3 1.6 1.8 3.7 0.9 4.2 1.2
2027 1.8 1.6 3.5 4.3 1.4 3.9 1.7
2028 1.6 1.8 3.1 3.9 1.5 3.6 1.9
2029 1.6 2.0 2.7 3.7 1.4 3.6 2.0
5-year average1 1.5 1.8 2.6 3.9 1.2 3.9 1.5
Unemployment rate (%)
2025 4.9 4.4 3.3 5.2 7.5 2.7 3.5
2026 4.7 4.3 3.7 5.4 7.3 2.6 3.5
2027 4.5 4.3 3.3 5.2 7.2 2.6 3.5
2028 4.3 4.2 3.0 5.0 7.0 2.5 3.5
2029 4.3 4.1 2.9 5.0 7.0 2.5 3.5
5-year average1 4.5 4.2 3.2 5.2 7.2 2.6 3.5
House prices (annual average growth rate, %)
2025 1.4 4.4 (0.5) (5.9) 2.1 9.3 7.6
2026 3.8 3.2 2.4 (0.7) 4.4 5.1 4.5
2027 4.6 2.4 3.0 3.2 4.4 3.6 4.2
2028 3.5 2.5 2.7 4.1 3.8 1.8 4.0
2029 2.7 2.6 2.7 2.9 3.1 1.3 4.0
5-year average1 3.2 3.0 2.1 0.7 3.6 4.2 4.9
Inflation (annual average growth rate, %)
2025 2.4 2.4 1.4 0.3 1.2 2.1 5.0
2026 2.1 2.8 1.9 1.0 1.6 1.9 3.9
2027 2.1 2.5 2.2 1.5 2.0 1.8 3.4
2028 2.0 2.2 2.2 1.7 2.3 1.9 3.4
2029 2.0 2.1 2.3 1.6 2.2 1.8 3.4
5-year average 2.1 2.4 2.0 1.2 1.9 1.9 3.8
Central bank policy rate (annual average, %)
2025 4.2 4.1 4.5 2.9 2.1 4.1 9.4
2026 3.9 3.7 4.1 2.9 1.8 3.8 8.8
2027 3.8 3.7 4.0 3.0 2.0 3.7 8.8
2028 3.7 3.6 4.0 3.2 2.0 3.6 8.9
2029 3.7 3.6 4.0 3.3 2.1 3.6 8.9
5-year average1 3.9 3.7 4.1 3.1 2.0 3.8 8.9
1 The five-year average is calculated over a projected period of 20 quarters from 1Q25 to 4Q29.
2 For mainland China, the rate shown is the Loan Prime Rate.

[PAGE 153]

Consensus Central scenario 2024–2028 (as at 4Q23)
UK US Hong Kong Mainland China France UAE Mexico
GDP (annual average growth rate, %)
2024 0.3 1.0 2.6 4.5 0.8 3.7 1.9
2025 1.2 1.8 2.7 4.4 1.5 4.0 2.2
2026 1.7 2.1 2.6 4.3 1.6 3.8 2.3
2027 1.6 2.0 2.6 3.8 1.5 3.4 2.4
2028 1.6 2.0 2.6 3.9 1.5 3.4 2.4
5-year average1 1.3 1.8 2.6 4.2 1.4 3.6 2.2
Unemployment rate (%)
2024 4.7 4.3 3.0 5.2 7.5 2.6 2.9
2025 4.6 4.2 3.0 5.1 7.3 2.6 2.9
2026 4.3 4.0 3.2 5.1 7.0 2.6 2.9
2027 4.2 4.0 3.2 5.1 6.8 2.6 2.9
2028 4.2 4.0 3.2 5.1 6.8 2.6 2.9
5-year average1 4.4 4.1 3.1 5.1 7.1 2.6 2.9
House prices (annual average growth rate, %)
2024 (5.5) 2.9 (6.6) (0.6) (1.0) 12.6 6.5
2025 0.1 2.7 (0.7) 1.1 2.4 7.7 4.2
2026 3.5 3.1 2.6 2.6 4.0 4.4 4.2
2027 3.0 2.7 2.8 4.0 4.4 2.6 4.0
2028 3.0 2.1 3.0 4.5 4.0 2.3 4.0
5-year average1 0.8 2.7 0.2 2.3 2.8 5.9 4.6
Inflation (annual average growth rate,%)
2024 3.2 2.7 2.1 1.8 2.7 2.3 4.2
2025 2.2 2.2 2.1 2.0 1.8 2.2 3.6
2026 2.2 2.3 2.2 2.1 1.7 2.1 3.5
2027 2.3 2.2 2.4 2.0 1.9 2.1 3.5
2028 2.3 2.2 2.4 2.0 2.1 2.1 3.5
5-year average1 2.4 2.3 2.2 2.0 2.0 2.1 3.7
Central bank policy rate (annual average, %)
2024 5.0 5.0 5.4 3.2 3.6 5.1 10.4
2025 4.3 4.0 4.4 3.3 2.8 4.1 8.6
2026 3.9 3.7 4.1 3.5 2.6 3.7 7.9
2027 3.8 3.7 4.1 3.7 2.6 3.7 7.9
2028 3.7 3.8 4.1 3.9 2.7 3.8 8.1
5-year average1 4.1 4.1 4.4 3.5 2.9 4.1 8.6
1 The five-year average is calculated over a projected period of 20 quarters from 1Q24 to 4Q28.
2 For mainland China, the rate shown is the Loan Prime Rate. In prior periods, including the 4Q23 disclosure, the reference rate shown for mainland China was the
Lending Rate.
The graphs compare the Central scenario at the year end 2023 with economic expectations at the end of 2024.
GDP growth: Comparison of Central scenarios
Hong Kong Mainland China
8 4Q23 Central 5Y Average: 2.6% 8 4Q23 Central 5Y Average: 4.2%
7 4Q24 Central 5Y Average: 2.6% 7 4Q24 Central 5Y Average: 3.9%
6 6
5 5
4 4
3 3
2 2
1 1
0 0
-1 -1
2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029
4Q23 Central 4Q24 Central 4Q23 Central 4Q24 Central
Note: Real GDP shown as year-on-year percentage change. Note: Real GDP shown as year-on-year percentage change.
Risk
review

[PAGE 154]

Risk review
UK US
5 4Q23 Central 5Y Average: 1.3% 5 4Q23 Central 5Y Average: 1.8%
4Q24 Central 5Y Average: 1.5% 4Q24 Central 5Y Average: 1.8%
4 4
3 3
2 2
1 1
0 0
-1 -1
2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029
4Q23 Central 4Q24 Central 4Q23 Central 4Q24 Central
Note: Real GDP shown as year-on-year percentage change. Note: Real GDP shown as year-on-year percentage change.
The consensus Upside scenario
Compared with the Central scenario, the consensus Upside scenario more quickly. The Upside scenario would also be consistent with a
features stronger economic activity in the near term, before de-escalation in geopolitical tensions, where the Russia-Ukraine war
converging to long-run trend expectations. It also incorporates a faster moves quickly towards a conclusion, tensions in the Middle East
fall in the rate of inflation than in the Central scenario. subside and US-China relations become more cordial.
The scenario is consistent with a number of key upside risk themes. The following tables describe key macroeconomic variables in the
These include only limited increases in tariffs and a faster fall in the consensus Upside scenario.
rate of inflation that allows central banks to reduce interest rates
Consensus Upside scenario 2025–2029 (as at 4Q24)
UK US Hong Kong Mainland China France UAE Mexico
GDP level (%, start-to-peak)1 11.3 (4Q29) 13.6 (4Q29) 21.4 (4Q29) 27.5 (4Q29) 8.9 (4Q29) 28.9 (4Q29) 13.6 (4Q29)
Unemployment rate (%, min)2 3.5 (3Q26) 3.6 (1Q26) 2.9 (4Q29) 4.9 (4Q26) 6.4 (4Q26) 2.2 (4Q26) 3.0 (1Q25)
House price index (%, start-to-peak)1 24.2 (4Q29) 23.6 (4Q29) 25.3 (4Q29) 9.8 (4Q29) 22.8 (4Q29) 26.1 (4Q29) 31.7 (4Q29)
Inflation rate (YoY % change, min)3 1.4 (1Q26) 1.6 (2Q26) (0.1) (4Q25) (1.0) (4Q25) 0.1 (4Q25) 0.6 (4Q25) 3.1 (2Q26)
Central bank policy rate (%, min)2 3.6 (4Q25) 3.6 (1Q29) 4.0 (1Q29) 2.7 (1Q26) 1.4 (3Q25) 3.6 (1Q29) 7.6 (1Q26)
1 Cumulative change to the highest level of the series during the 20-quarter projection.
2 Lowest projected unemployment or policy interest rate in the scenario. For mainland China, rate shown is the Loan Prime Rate.
3 Lowest projected year-on-year percentage change in inflation in the scenario.
Consensus Upside scenario 2024–2028 (as at 4Q23)
UK US Hong Kong Mainland China France UAE Mexico
GDP level (%, start-to-peak)1 10.8 (4Q28) 14.3 (4Q28) 21.8 (4Q28) 30.4 (4Q28) 10.4 (4Q28) 30.7 (4Q28) 17.8 (4Q28)
Unemployment rate (%, min)2 3.1 (4Q24) 3.1 (2Q25) 2.4 (3Q24) 4.8 (4Q25) 6.2 (4Q25) 2.0 (4Q25) 2.4 (3Q24)
House price index (%, start-to-peak)1 13.0 (4Q28) 21.9 (4Q28) 17.9 (4Q28) 19.7 (4Q28) 19.6 (4Q28) 34.2 (4Q28) 30.6 (4Q28)
Inflation rate (YoY % change, min)3 1.3 (2Q25) 1.4 (1Q25) 0.3 (4Q24) 0.6 (3Q24) 1.5 (3Q24) 1.4 (1Q25) 2.7 (1Q25)
Central bank policy rate (%, min)2 3.7 (3Q28) 3.7 (2Q27) 4.1 (1Q27) 3.1 (3Q24) 2.6 (2Q26) 3.7 (1Q27) 7.8 (2Q25)
1 Cumulative change to the highest level of the series during the 20-quarter projection.
2 Lowest projected unemployment or policy interest rate in the scenario. For mainland China, the rate shown is the Loan Prime Rate. In prior periods, including the
4Q23 disclosure, the reference rate shown for mainland China was the Lending Rate.
3 Lowest projected year-on-year percentage change in inflation in the scenario.
Downside scenarios
Downside scenarios explore the intensification and crystallisation of a – continued differences between the US and China, which could
number of key economic and financial risks. These include a more affect economic confidence, and the global goods trade and supply
material escalation of tariff policies and geopolitical tensions, which chains for critical technologies.
disrupt key commodity and goods markets, causing inflation and
High inflation and higher interest rates also remain key risks. Should
interest rates to rise, and creating a global recession.
tariffs increase significantly and geopolitical tensions escalate, energy
As the geopolitical environment remains volatile and complex, risks and food prices could rise and increase pressure on household
include: budgets and firms’ costs. Higher inflation and labour supply shortages
could also trigger a wage-price spiral and put sustained pressure on
– an increase in protectionist policies, as countries that impose
household incomes and corporate margins. In turn, it raises the risk
tariffs are met with retaliatory actions. This lowers investment,
that central banks react by raising interest rates, leading to higher
complicates international supply chains, and impedes trade flows;
defaults and an economic recession.
– broader and more prolonged conflicts in the Middle East and
between Russia and Ukraine, which further disrupt energy and
food supplies; and

[PAGE 155]

The consensus Downside scenario
In the consensus Downside scenario, economic activity is weaker rise in inflation, as supply chain constraints intensify and energy prices
compared with the Central scenario. In this scenario, GDP declines, rise. The scenario also features a temporary increase in interest rates
unemployment rates rise, and asset prices fall. The scenario features above the Central scenario, before the effects of weaker consumption
an increase in tariffs over and above those assumed in the Central demand begin to dominate and commodity prices and inflation fall
scenario and an escalation of geopolitical tensions, which causes a again.
The following tables describe key macroeconomic variables in the
consensus Downside scenario.
Consensus Downside scenario 2025–2029 (as at 4Q24)
UK US Hong Kong Mainland China France UAE Mexico
GDP level (%, start-to-trough)1 (1.0) (4Q26) (0.6) (3Q25) (4.5) (4Q25) (2.5) (3Q25) (0.6) (1Q26) 0.3 (1Q25) (2.1) (4Q26)
Unemployment rate (%, max)2 6.1 (4Q25) 5.3 (3Q25) 5.1 (2Q26) 6.9 (4Q26) 8.3 (3Q25) 3.4 (1Q26) 4.1 (4Q25)
House price index (%, start-to-
trough)1 (4.5) (1Q26) (0.2) (1Q25) (1.9) (2Q26) (12.8) (3Q26) (0.3) (1Q25) (0.4) (1Q25) 2.1 (1Q25)
Inflation rate (YoY % change, max)3 3.4 (4Q25) 4.5 (1Q26) 3.1 (1Q26) 2.0 (1Q26) 2.6 (3Q25) 2.8 (1Q26) 7.4 (4Q25)
Central bank policy rate (%, max)2 5.0 (1Q25) 4.8 (1Q25) 5.2 (1Q25) 3.0 (1Q25) 3.2 (1Q25) 4.8 (1Q25) 11.5 (3Q25)
1 Cumulative change to the lowest level of the series during the 20-quarter projection.
2 The highest projected unemployment or policy interest rate in the scenario. For mainland China, the rate shown is the Loan Prime Rate.
3 The highest projected year-on-year percentage change in inflation in the scenario.
Consensus Downside scenario 2024–2028 (as at 4Q23)
UK US Hong Kong Mainland China France UAE Mexico
GDP level (%, start-to-trough)1 (1.0) (2Q25) (1.4) (3Q24) (1.6) (3Q25) (1.5) (1Q24) (0.3) (2Q24) 1.4 (1Q24) (0.3) (4Q24)
Unemployment rate (%, max)2 6.4 (1Q25) 5.6 (4Q24) 4.7 (4Q25) 6.9 (4Q25) 8.5 (4Q24) 3.7 (4Q25) 3.5 (4Q25)
House price index (%, start-to-
trough)1 (12.0) (2Q25) (1.3) (3Q24) (9.6) (4Q24) (7.1) (3Q25) (1.2) (3Q24) 0.3 (1Q24) 1.2 (1Q24)
Inflation rate (YoY % change, max)3 4.1 (1Q24) 3.5 (4Q24) 3.8 (3Q24) 3.5 (4Q24) 3.8 (2Q24) 3.0 (1Q24) 6.5 (4Q24)
Central bank policy rate (%, max)2 5.7 (1Q24) 5.6 (1Q24) 6.0 (1Q24) 3.2 (3Q24) 4.2 (1Q24) 5.7 (1Q24) 12.0 (3Q24)
1 Cumulative change to the lowest level of the series during the 20-quarter projection.
2 The highest projected unemployment or policy interest rate in the scenario. For mainland China, the rate shown is the Loan Prime Rate. In prior periods, including
the 4Q23 disclosure, the reference rate shown for mainland China was the Lending Rate.
3 The highest projected year-on-year percentage change in inflation in the scenario.
Downside 2 scenario
The Downside 2 scenario features a deep global recession and In the scenario, as inflation surges and central banks tighten monetary
reflects management’s view of the tail of the economic distribution. It policy further, consumer and business confidence falls. However, this
incorporates the crystallisation of a number of risks simultaneously, impulse is assumed to be short-lived, as recession takes hold, causing
including significant increases in tariffs globally, where the US a fall in demand, leading commodity prices to correct sharply and
imposes particularly high and punitive tariffs on imports from global price inflation to fall.
mainland China and Mexico. A further escalation of geopolitical crises
The following tables describe key macroeconomic variables in the
is also assumed, which creates severe supply disruptions to goods
Downside 2 scenario.
and energy markets.
Downside 2 scenario 2025–2029 (as at 4Q24)
UK US Hong Kong Mainland China France UAE Mexico
GDP level (%, start-to-trough)1 (9.1) (2Q26) (4.1) (2Q26) (10.1) (4Q25) (8.7) (4Q25) (7.9) (2Q26) (6.8) (2Q26) (10.5) (3Q26)
Unemployment rate (%, max)2 8.4 (2Q26) 9.3 (2Q26) 7.1 (1Q26) 7.1 (4Q26) 10.4 (1Q27) 5.0 (3Q25) 5.6 (1Q26)
House price index (%, start-to-
trough)1 (27.2) (4Q26) (15.8) (4Q25) (34.4) (3Q27) (30.5) (4Q26) (14.0) (2Q27) (13.2) (2Q27) 2.0 (1Q25)
Inflation rate (YoY % change, max)3 10.1 (2Q25) 4.9 (4Q25) 3.6 (1Q26) 3.8 (4Q25) 7.6 (2Q25) 3.7 (2Q25) 7.9 (4Q25)
Central bank policy rate (%, max)2 5.5 (1Q25) 5.5 (1Q25) 5.9 (1Q25) 3.5 (3Q25) 4.2 (1Q25) 5.6 (1Q25) 12.1 (3Q25)
1 Cumulative change to the lowest level of the series during the 20-quarter projection.
2 The highest projected unemployment or policy interest rate in the scenario. For mainland China, the rate shown is the Loan Prime Rate.
3 The highest projected year-on-year percentage change in inflation in the scenario.
Downside 2 scenario 2024–2028 (as at 4Q23)
UK US Hong Kong Mainland China France UAE Mexico
GDP level (%, start-to-trough)1 (8.8) (2Q25) (4.6) (1Q25) (8.2) (1Q25) (6.4) (1Q25) (6.6) (1Q25) (4.9) (2Q25) (8.1) (2Q25)
Unemployment rate (%, max)2 8.4 (2Q25) 9.3 (2Q25) 6.4 (4Q24) 7.0 (4Q25) 10.2 (4Q25) 4.3 (3Q24) 4.9 (2Q25)
House price index (%, start-to-
trough)1 (30.2) (4Q25) (14.7) (4Q24) (32.8) (3Q26) (25.5) (4Q25) (14.5) (2Q26) (2.9) (4Q25) 1.2 (1Q24)
Inflation rate (YoY % change, max)3 10.1 (2Q24) 4.8 (2Q24) 4.1 (3Q24) 4.1 (4Q24) 8.6 (2Q24) 3.5 (2Q24) 7.0 (4Q24)
Central bank policy rate (%, max)2 6.0 (1Q24) 6.1 (1Q24) 6.4 (1Q24) 4.1 (3Q24) 5.2 (1Q24) 6.1 (1Q24) 12.7 (3Q24)
1 Cumulative change to the lowest level of the series during the 20-quarter projection.
2 The highest projected unemployment or policy interest rate in the scenario. For mainland China, rate shown is the Loan Prime Rate. In prior periods, including the
4Q23 disclosure, the reference rate shown for mainland China was the Lending Rate.
3 The highest projected year-on-year percentage change in inflation in the scenario.
Risk
review

[PAGE 156]

Risk review
The following graphs show the historical and forecasted GDP growth rate for the various economic scenarios in our four largest markets.
Hong Kong
UK
12
6
8 4
2
4
0
0
-2
-4 -4
-6
-8
-8
-12
-10
2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029
2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029
Central Upside Downside Downside 2
Central Upside Downside Downside 2
Mainland China
US
12
6
8 4
2
4
0
0
-2
-4 -4
-6
-8
-8
-12
-10
2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029
2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029
Central Upside Downside Downside 2
Central Upside Downside Downside 2
Scenario weighting
Scenario weightings are calibrated to probabilities that are determined – risks of an asset price correction given elevated valuations across
with reference to consensus forecast probability distributions. different asset classes.
Management may then choose to vary weights if they assess that the
Although these factors are significant, management assessed that
calibration lags more recent events, or does not reflect their view of
following the tariff-based adjustment, the Central scenario reflected
the distribution of economic and geopolitical risk. Management’s view
the most likely future economic outcome and that outer scenarios
of the scenarios and the probability distribution takes into
were sufficiently well calibrated to address the crystallisation of more
consideration the relationship of the consensus scenario to both
severe risks.
internal and external assessments of risk.
This led management to assign scenario probabilities that are aligned
In assessing the economic environment and the level of risk and
to the standard scenario probability calibration framework in all major
uncertainty, management has considered both global and country-
markets. The Central scenario was assigned a 75% probability
specific factors.
weighting in our major markets. The consensus Upside scenario was
In the fourth quarter of 2024, key considerations around uncertainty assigned a 10% weighting, and the consensus Downside scenario
focused on: was given 10%. The Downside 2 was assigned a 5% weighting.
– US import tariffs and bilateral tariff escalations globally, and the In support of the decision, it was noted that the effect of higher tariffs
impact on trade and manufacturing supply chains; would be most negative in mainland China and Hong Kong, as it
would limit trade growth (a significant growth driver in 2024)
– the extent and success of mainland China in deploying fiscal and
substantially and lead to weaker domestic demand. The adjustment to
monetary support to secure economic growth and underpin a
the Central scenario reflected this assumption.
recovery in the real estate market;
In the UK, tariffs have a small direct impact on GDP growth forecasts
– prospects for recovery in the Hong Kong residential property
in the Central scenario, but indirect effects would be larger through
market;
weaker trade and lower global growth. The outlook also remains weak
– the implications of changes to monetary policy expectations on given the only partially offsetting impacts from measures announced
growth and employment; in the 2024-25 Budget and higher US interest rates.
– estimation and forecast uncertainty for UK unemployment given
For the US, the Central scenario reflects expectations that economic
ongoing methodology updates at the Office for National Statistics;
growth will slow in 2025 as households and businesses adjust to
and
higher inflation, lower labour supply and elevated interest rates.

[PAGE 157]

The impact from tariffs is minimal for the UAE, as trade with the US is scenario are lower than in previous periods, and inflation and interest
small, but it is assumed to be affected through secondary channels, rates are higher, in part due to an expected deprecation of the
including a stronger US dollar and higher interest rates. It was also Mexican peso.
observed that geopolitical risks have remained high since the
In France, recent domestic political uncertainty is the main factor
outbreak of conflict in the Middle East, but economic and market
weighing on reduced growth prospects, and as with other European
impacts have been limited and oil production remains unaffected.
markets, there are also assumed to be negative impacts stemming
Escalation risks were assessed to be consistent with the probabilities
from higher US tariffs.
assigned to the Downside scenario.
The following tables describe the probabilities assigned in each
Management concluded that Mexico is likely to be one of the most
scenario.
heavily affected countries from US tariff policies and that the impacts
are reflected in the scenarios. GDP growth forecasts in the Central
Scenario weightings, %
Standard Hong Mainland
weights UK US Kong China Canada France UAE Mexico
4Q24
Upside scenario 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10
Central scenario 75 75 75 75 75 75 75 75 75
Downside scenario 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10
Downside 2 scenario 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5
4Q23
Upside scenario 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10
Central scenario 75 75 75 75 75 75 75 75 75
Downside scenario 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10
Downside 2 scenario 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5
At 31 December 2024, the consensus Upside and Central scenarios for all markets had a combined weighting of 85%, unchanged as at
31 December 2023. Weightings assigned to downside scenarios also remained unchanged.
Critical estimates and judgements LGD-driven proxy and modelled estimates are used for certain less
material cases.
The calculation of ECL under IFRS 9 involved significant judgements,
For our retail portfolios, the models are predominantly based on
assumptions and estimates at 31 December 2024. These included:
historical observations and correlations with default rates and
– the selection and configuration of economic scenarios, given the collateral values.
constant change in economic conditions and distribution of
For PD, the impact of economic scenarios is modelled for each
economic risks; and
portfolio, using historical relationships between default rates and
– estimating the economic effects of those scenarios on ECL, where macroeconomic variables. These are included within IFRS 9 ECL
similar observable historical conditions cannot be captured by the estimates using either economic response models or models that
credit risk models. contain internal, external and macroeconomic variables. The
macroeconomic impact on PD is modelled over the period equal to
How economic scenarios are
the remaining maturity of the assets.
reflected in ECL calculations
For LGD, the impact is modelled for mortgage portfolios by
forecasting future loan-to-value profiles for the remaining maturity of
Models are used to reflect economic scenarios in ECL estimates. As
the asset, using national level house price index forecasts and
described above, modelled assumptions and linkages based on historical
applying the corresponding LGD expectation relative to the updated
information could not alone produce relevant information under the
forecast collateral values.
conditions experienced in 2024, and management judgemental
adjustments were still required to support modelled outcomes. For unsecured retail portfolios historically observed recovery rates are
leveraged to measure loss. For both mortgages and unsecured, a
We have developed globally consistent methodologies for the
limited number of portfolios utilise a macroeconomic dependent
application of forward economic guidance into the calculation of ECL
stressed LGD applied to the Downside 2 scenario.
for wholesale and retail credit risk. These standard approaches are
described below, followed by the management judgemental
Management judgemental
adjustments made, including those to reflect the circumstances
experienced in 2024. adjustments
For our wholesale portfolios, a global methodology is used for the
In the context of IFRS 9, management judgemental adjustments are
estimation of the term structure of probability of default (‘PD’) and
typically short-term increases or decreases to the modelled allowance
loss given default (‘LGD’). For PDs, we consider the correlation of
for ECL at either a customer, segment or portfolio level where
forward economic guidance to default rates for a particular industry in
management believes allowances do not sufficiently reflect the credit
a country. For LGD calculations, we consider the correlation of
risk/expected credit losses at the reporting date. These can relate to
forward economic guidance to collateral values and realisation rates
risks or uncertainties that are not reflected in the models and/or to
for a particular country and industry. PDs and LGDs are estimated for
any late-breaking events with significant uncertainty, subject to
the entire term structure of each instrument.
management review and challenge.
For impaired loans, allowance for ECL estimates are derived based on
This includes refining model inputs and outputs and using
discounted cash flow (‘DCF’) calculations for internal forward-looking
adjustments to ECL based on management judgement and
scenarios specific to individual borrower circumstances (see page
quantitative analysis for impacts that are difficult to model.
359). Probability-weighted outcomes are applied, and depending on
materiality and status of the borrower, the number of scenarios The effects of management judgemental adjustments are considered for both
considered will change. Where relevant for the case being assessed, balances and allowance for ECL when determining whether or not a significant
forward economic guidance is incorporated as part of these scenarios. increase in credit risk has occurred and is allocated to a stage where
appropriate. This is in accordance with the internal adjustments framework.
Risk
review

[PAGE 158]

Risk review
Management judgemental adjustments are reviewed under the progressed to allow an accurate estimate of ECL allowance to be
governance process for IFRS 9 (as detailed in the section ‘Credit risk incorporated into the total reported ECL.
management’ on page 139). Review and challenge focuses on the
‘Management judgemental adjustments’ and ‘Other adjustments’
rationale and quantum of the adjustments with a further review
constitute the total value of adjustments to modelled allowance for
carried out by the second line of defence where significant. For some
ECL. For the wholesale portfolio, defaulted exposures are assessed
management judgemental adjustments, internal frameworks establish
individually and management judgemental adjustments are made only
the conditions under which these adjustments should no longer be
to the performing portfolio.
required and as such are considered as part of the governance
process. This internal governance process allows management
At 31 December 2024, there was a $0.6bn reduction in management
judgemental adjustments to be reviewed regularly and, where
judgemental adjustments compared with 31 December 2023. This
possible, to reduce the reliance on these through model recalibration
was driven by retail due to reductions in economic uncertainty,
or redevelopment, as appropriate.
primarily in the UK and Asia, and model redevelopments which
captured macro-economic risks more effectively.
The drivers of management judgemental adjustments continue to
evolve with the economic environment and as new risks emerge.
Management judgemental adjustments made in estimating the
scenario-weighted reported allowance for ECL at 31 December 2024
In addition to management judgemental adjustments there are also
are set out in the following table.
‘Other adjustments’, which are made to address process limitations
and data/model deficiencies and can also include, where appropriate,
the impact of new models where governance has sufficiently
Management judgemental adjustments to ECL at 31 December 20241
Retail Wholesale2 Total
$bn $bn $bn
Modelled ECL (A)3 2.6 2.0 4.6
Banks, sovereigns, government entities and low-risk counterparties 0.0 0.0
Corporate lending adjustments 0.1 0.1
Inflation related adjustments 0.0 0.0
Other credit judgements 0.0 0.0
Total management judgemental adjustments (B)4 0.0 0.1 0.1
Other adjustments (C)5 (0.0) 0.1 0.1
Final ECL (A + B + C)6 2.6 2.2 4.8
Management judgemental adjustments to ECL at 31 December 20231,7
Retail Wholesale2 Total
$bn $bn $bn
Modelled ECL (A)3 2.6 2.4 5.0
Banks, sovereigns, government entities and low-risk counterparties 0.0 0.0
Corporate lending adjustments 0.1 0.1
Inflation-related adjustments 0.1 0.1
Other credit judgements 0.5 0.5
Total management judgemental adjustments (B)4 0.6 0.1 0.7
Other adjustments (C)5 (0.0) 0.0 0.0
Final ECL (A + B + C)6 3.2 2.5 5.7
1 Management judgemental adjustments presented in the table reflect increases or (decreases) to allowance for ECL, respectively.
2 The wholesale portfolio corresponds to adjustments to the performing portfolio (stage 1 and stage 2).
3 (A) refers to probability-weighted allowance for ECL before any adjustments are applied.
4 (B) refers to adjustments that are applied where management believes allowance for ECL does not sufficiently reflect the credit risk/expected credit losses of
any given portfolio at the reporting date. These can relate to risks or uncertainties that are not reflected in the model and/or to any late-breaking events.
5 (C) refers to adjustments to allowance for ECL made to address process limitations and data/model deficiencies and can also include where appropriate, the
impact of new models where governance has sufficiently progressed to allow an accurate estimate of ECL allowance to be incorporated into the total reported
ECL.
6 As presented within our internal credit risk governance (see page 139).
7 31 December 2023 includes the Canada, Argentina, Armenia and Oman businesses and retail banking operations in France.
Management judgemental adjustments at 31 December 2024 were economic uncertainty, primarily in the UK and Asia, and model
an increase to allowance for ECL of $0.1bn for the wholesale portfolio redevelopments which captured macro-economic risks more
and $0.0bn for the retail portfolio. effectively.
At 31 December 2024, wholesale management judgemental Economic scenarios sensitivity
adjustments were an increase to allowance for ECL of $0.1bn
(31 December 2023: $0.1bn increase). These were mainly to analysis of ECL estimates
corporate exposures to reflect heightened uncertainty in specific
Management considered the sensitivity of the ECL outcome against
sectors and geographies, including offsetting adjustments to the real
the economic forecasts as part of the ECL governance process by
estate sector in mainland China, Hong Kong and the US, and
recalculating the allowance for ECL under each scenario described
adjustments to exposures to the automotive and industrial sectors in
above for selected portfolios, applying a 100% weighting to each
Germany.
scenario in turn. The weighting is reflected in both the determination
At 31 December 2024, retail management judgemental adjustments of a significant increase in credit risk and the measurement of the
to allowance for ECL were $0.0bn (31 December 2023 $0.6bn). The resulting allowances.
reduction in adjustments compared with 31 December 2023 for
inflation-related adjustments was primarily due to the reduction of
inflation related risk in the UK and the sale of the Canadian banking
business. Other credit judgements decreased due to reductions in

[PAGE 159]

The allowance for ECL calculated for the Upside and Downside is because the retail ECL for secured mortgage portfolios, including
scenarios should not be taken to represent the upper and lower limits loans in all stages, is sensitive to macroeconomic variables.
of possible ECL outcomes. The impact of defaults that might occur in
the future under different economic scenarios is captured by Wholesale and retail sensitivity
recalculating allowances for loans at the balance sheet date.
The wholesale and retail sensitivity tables present the 100%
There is a particularly high degree of estimation uncertainty in
weighted results. These exclude portfolios held by the insurance
numbers representing tail risk scenarios when assigned a 100%
business and small portfolios, and as such cannot be directly
weighting.
compared with personal and wholesale lending presented in other
For wholesale credit risk exposures, the sensitivity analysis excludes credit risk tables. In both the wholesale and retail analysis, the
allowance for ECL and financial instruments related to defaulted comparative period results for Downside 2 scenarios are also not
(stage 3) obligors. The measurement of stage 3 ECL is relatively more directly comparable with the current period, because they reflect
sensitive to credit factors specific to the obligor than future economic different risks relative to the consensus scenarios for the period end.
scenarios, and therefore the effects of macroeconomic factors are not
The wholesale and retail sensitivity analysis is stated inclusive of
necessarily the key consideration when performing individual
management judgemental adjustments, as appropriate to each
assessments of allowances for obligors in default. Loans to defaulted
scenario.
obligors are a small portion of the overall wholesale lending exposure,
even if representing the majority of the allowance for ECL. Due to the For both retail and wholesale portfolios, the gross carrying amount of
range and specificity of the credit factors to which the ECL is financial instruments are the same under each scenario. For
sensitive, it is not possible to provide a meaningful alternative exposures with similar risk profile and product characteristics, the
sensitivity analysis for a consistent set of risks across all defaulted sensitivity impact is therefore largely the result of changes in
obligors. macroeconomic assumptions.
For retail mortgage exposures the sensitivity analysis includes
allowance for ECL for defaulted obligors of loans and advances. This
Wholesale analysis
IFRS 9 ECL sensitivity to future economic conditions1,2,3
Consensus Consensus Consensus
Central Upside Downside Downside 2
Reported Reported scenario scenario scenario scenario
Gross carrying allowance for allowance for allowance for allowance for allowance for
amount4 ECL ECL ECL ECL ECL
By geography at 31 Dec 2024 $m $m $m $m $m $m
UK 432,160 717 667 526 850 2,389
US 202,888 216 201 205 247 461
Hong Kong 450,966 659 616 465 906 1,496
Mainland China 137,960 178 141 84 329 886
Mexico 34,713 69 61 46 86 302
UAE 58,909 51 49 40 58 120
France 184,591 82 80 69 97 125
Other geographies5 455,823 234 216 176 304 774
Total 1,958,010 2,205 2,031 1,612 2,877 6,555
of which:
Stage 1 1,830,264 689 632 494 797 803
Stage 2 127,746 1,516 1,399 1,118 2,080 5,751
By geography at 31 Dec 2023
UK 426,427 820 754 599 1,041 2,487
US 191,104 215 199 189 268 441
Hong Kong 447,480 609 566 433 807 1,393
Mainland China 129,945 258 217 142 414 945
Canada5 84,092 89 75 56 107 487
Mexico 30,159 60 56 46 73 226
UAE 52,074 32 32 30 34 40
France 178,827 98 102 90 124 141
Other geographies5,7 450,271 325 298 245 410 882
Total 1,990,378 2,507 2,301 1,829 3,278 7,043
of which:
Stage 1 1,820,843 754 702 553 860 854
Stage 2 169,535 1,753 1,599 1,276 2,418 6,189
1 Allowance for ECL sensitivity includes off-balance sheet financial instruments. These are subject to significant measurement uncertainty.
2 Includes low credit-risk financial instruments such as debt instruments at FVOCI, which have high carrying amounts but low ECL under all the above scenarios.
3 Excludes defaulted obligors. For a detailed breakdown of performing and non-performing wholesale portfolio exposures, see page 170.
4 Staging refers only to probability-weighted/reported gross carrying amount. Stage allocation of gross exposures varies by scenario, with higher allocation to stage
2 under the Downside 2 scenario.
5 Includes small portfolios that use less complex modelling approaches and are not sensitive to macroeconomic changes.
6 Classified as held for sale at 31 December 2023.
7 Includes the Argentina and Armenia businesses, which were sold in 2024.
Risk
review

[PAGE 160]

Risk review
At 31 December 2024, the highest level of 100% scenario-weighted In the wholesale portfolio, off-balance sheet financial instruments
allowance for ECL was observed in the UK and Hong Kong under the have a lower likelihood to be fully converted to a funded exposure at
Downside 2 scenario, driven primarily by a larger exposure to those the point of default, and consequently the sensitivity of the allowance
geographies, namely in the real estate sector. In relation to the for ECL is lower in relation to its nominal amount, when compared
underlying exposure, mainland China and Mexico have the higher with an on-balance sheet exposure with a similar risk profile.
Downside 2 ECL coverage, mostly due to the relatively larger
proportion of higher risk exposures in those geographies.
Compared with 31 December 2023, the Downside 2 ECL impact
reduced by $0.5bn mostly due to the sale of the Canada business
while observing offsetting impacts driven by updates to our forward
economic scenarios.
Retail analysis
IFRS 9 ECL sensitivity to future economic conditions1
Consensus Consensus Consensus
Central Upside Downside Downside 2
Reported gross Reported scenario scenario scenario scenario
carrying allowance for allowance for allowance for allowance for allowance for
amount ECL ECL ECL ECL ECL
By geography at 31 Dec 2024 $m $m $m $m $m $m
UK
Mortgages 163,541 126 117 107 132 288
Credit cards 7,415 280 275 265 276 447
Other 8,249 241 233 217 243 351
Mexico
Mortgages 7,482 165 162 155 168 215
Credit cards 2,227 337 333 330 338 423
Other 3,722 419 416 413 422 593
Hong Kong
Mortgages 106,866 5 5 4 5 10
Credit cards 9,419 293 275 268 300 770
Other 6,210 106 102 101 105 249
UAE
Mortgages 1,993 8 8 8 8 8
Credit cards 536 31 31 31 31 35
Other 688 17 17 17 17 19
US
Mortgages 16,965 6 6 6 6 8
Credit cards 193 15 14 14 15 17
Other geographies
Mortgages 51,064 131 127 124 136 180
Credit cards 3,500 162 159 156 164 223
Other 2,292 72 72 69 73 93
Total 392,361 2,413 2,351 2,285 2,440 3,928
of which: mortgages 347,910 440 425 405 456 708
Stage 1 311,875 51 47 43 58 129
Stage 2 33,761 126 117 107 129 275
Stage 3 2,274 263 261 255 269 304
of which: credit cards 23,290 1,116 1,086 1,064 1,124 1,915
Stage 1 19,915 276 267 258 284 701
Stage 2 3,107 655 634 621 656 1,027
Stage 3 267 185 185 185 185 188
of which: others 21,161 856 839 816 860 1,305
Stage 1 18,574 216 204 193 217 532
Stage 2 2,005 360 355 343 363 483
Stage 3 583 279 279 279 279 290

[PAGE 161]

IFRS 9 ECL sensitivity to future economic conditions1,2
Consensus
Consensus Consensus Downside Downside 2
Reported Central scenario Upside scenario scenario scenario
Reported gross allowance for allowance for allowance for allowance for allowance for
carrying amount ECL ECL ECL ECL ECL
By geography at 31 Dec 2023 $m $m $m $m $m $m
UK
Mortgages 161,127 189 180 172 201 334
Credit cards 7,582 344 340 302 353 486
Other 8,183 341 333 273 383 515
Mexico
Mortgages 8,666 188 180 150 235 363
Credit cards 2,445 295 286 206 376 489
Other 4,529 513 503 426 600 731
Hong Kong
Mortgages 106,136 2 2 1 3 5
Credit cards 9,128 287 239 214 395 887
Other 6,269 109 100 88 124 256
UAE
Mortgages 2,001 25 25 25 25 25
Credit cards 471 24 24 22 25 32
Other 721 20 20 19 21 28
France
Mortgages 20,589 50 50 50 51 51
Other 1,328 44 44 43 45 48
US
Mortgages 14,385 8 4 3 4 10
Credit cards 204 15 15 10 15 16
Canada
Mortgages 25,464 67 65 64 70 99
Credit cards 338 13 13 12 16 15
Other 1,368 13 13 12 14 33
Other geographies
Mortgages 55,368 152 149 144 158 198
Credit cards 3,655 173 166 151 202 291
Other 2,416 91 86 83 95 137
Total 442,373 2,962 2,835 2,471 3,411 5,049
of which: mortgages 393,736 681 655 609 747 1,085
Stage 1 347,874 101 92 77 145 303
Stage 2 43,451 264 249 225 280 429
Stage 3 2,412 316 314 307 322 352
of which: credit cards 23,822 1,150 1,082 918 1,381 2,217
Stage 1 18,557 249 232 180 329 604
Stage 2 4,953 707 657 546 859 1,415
Stage 3 312 193 193 192 194 197
of which: others 24,815 1,131 1,098 944 1,283 1,748
Stage 1 19,551 218 205 151 272 501
Stage 2 4,542 540 519 423 636 868
Stage 3 722 373 373 370 375 379
1 Allowance for ECL sensitivities exclude portfolios utilising less complex modelling approaches.
2 Included balances and allowance for ECL which had been reclassified from ‘loans and advances to customers’ to ‘assets held for sale’ in the balance sheet at
31 December 2023. This also included any balances and allowance for ECL which continued to be reported as personal lending in ‘loans and advances to
customers’ that are in accordance with the basis of inclusion for retail sensitivity analysis. This includes the Canada, Argentina businesses and retail banking
operations in France.
At 31 December 2024, the most significant level of allowance for ECL There is limited sensitivity in credit cards and other unsecured lending
sensitivity was observed in the UK, Mexico and Hong Kong. Mortgages in stage 3 as levels of loss on defaulted exposures remain consistent
reflected the lowest level of allowance for ECL sensitivity across most through various economic conditions. The Downside 2 scenario is
markets given the significant levels of collateral relative to the exposure from the tail of the economic distribution where allowance for ECL is
values. Credit cards and other unsecured lending across stages 1 and 2 more sensitive based on historical experience and includes a
are more sensitive to economic forecasts and therefore reflected the macroeconomic-dependent stressed LGD for a limited number of
highest level of allowance for ECL sensitivity during 2024. portfolios.
There was a reduction in the total sensitivity for ECL allowance in all The reported gross carrying amount by stage is representative of the
scenarios compared with 31 December 2023, due to banking portfolio weighted scenario allowance for ECL. The allowance for ECL
sales, reduction of management judgemental adjustments, model sensitivity to the other scenarios includes changes in allowance for
redevelopments and scenario evolution. ECL due to the levels of loss and the migration of additional lending
balances in or out of stage 2.
Risk
review

[PAGE 162]

Risk review
Group ECL sensitivity results
The allowance for ECL of the scenarios and management judgemental for ECL balance was estimated solely on the basis of the Central scenario,
adjustments is highly sensitive to movements in economic forecasts. Downside scenario or the Downside 2 scenario at 31 December 2024, it
Based upon the sensitivity tables presented above, if the Group allowance would increase/(decrease) as presented in the below table.
Total Group ECL at 31 December 2024
Retail1 Wholesale1
$bn $bn
Reported allowance for ECL 2.4 2.2
Scenarios
100% Consensus Central scenario (0.1) (0.2)
100% Consensus Upside scenario (0.1) (0.6)
100% Consensus Downside scenario 0.0 0.7
100% Downside 2 scenario 1.5 4.3
Total Group ECL at 31 December 2023
Reported allowance for ECL 3.0 2.5
Scenarios
100% Consensus Central scenario (0.1) (0.2)
100% Consensus Upside scenario (0.5) (0.7)
100% Consensus Downside scenario 0.4 0.8
100% Downside 2 scenario 2.1 4.5
1 On the same basis as retail and wholesale sensitivity analysis.
At 31 December 2024, the Group allowance for ECL decreased in the For the wholesale portfolio this was the main driver of the decrease in
retail portfolio by $0.6bn and decreased by $0.3bn in the wholesale Downside 2 ECL sensitivity.
portfolio, compared with 31 December 2023.
For the retail portfolios the ECL sensitivity decrease across all
There was also a reduction in allowance for ECL sensitivity across all scenarios including the Downside 2 was also primarily due to the
scenarios within the retail and wholesale portfolios since reduction of management judgemental adjustments, model
31 December 2023, primarily as a result of the sale of our Canada redevelopments and scenario evolution.
banking business, the sale of our retail banking operations in France,
and various other business sales during the first half of 2024.
Reconciliation from reported exposure and ECL to sensitised exposure and weighted ECL
Wholesale Retail Total
Gross carrying/ Allowance Gross carrying/ Allowance Gross carrying/ Allowance
nominal amount for ECL nominal amount for ECL nominal amount for ECL
$m $m $m $m $m $m
Included in sensitivity analysis 1,958,010 (2,205) 392,361 (2,413) 2,350,371 (4,618)
– Exclusions from sensitivity as described in the
section above1 20,409 (5,419) 309,178 (124) 329,587 (5,543)
– Debt instruments measured at fair value through
other comprehensive income2 (346,124) 54 — — (346,124) 54
– Performance guarantees2 (92,722) 311 — — (92,722) 311
– Other financial assets at amortised cost not
presented as wholesale or personal lending, including
held for sale2 (568,668) 141 (130) — (568,798) 141
– Other3 5,978 (441) 498 (9) 6,476 (450)
As reported in the Summary of credit risk
(excluding debt instruments measured at FVOCI) by
stage distribution and ECL coverage by industry
sector at 31 Dec 2024 976,883 (7,559) 701,907 (2,546) 1,678,790 (10,105)
Other financial assets at amortised cost 828,580 (92)
Total reported in the Summary of credit risk
(excluding debt instruments measured at FVOCI) by
stage distribution and ECL coverage by industry
sector at 31 Dec 2024 2,507,370 (10,197)

[PAGE 163]

Reconciliation from reported exposure and ECL to sensitised exposure and weighted ECL (continued)
Wholesale Retail Total
Gross carrying/ Allowance Gross carrying/ Allowance Gross carrying/ Allowance
nominal amount for ECL nominal amount for ECL nominal amount for ECL
$m $m $m $m $m $m
Included in sensitivity analysis 1,990,378 (2,507) 442,373 (2,962) 2,432,751 (5,469)
– Exclusions from sensitivity as described in the
section above1 17,024 (6,237) 308,569 (93) 325,593 (6,330)
– Debt instruments measured at fair value through
other comprehensive income2 (302,348) 97 — — (302,348) 97
– Performance guarantees2 (93,312) 35 — — (93,312) 35
– Other financial assets at amortised cost not
presented as wholesale or personal lending, including
held for sale2 (579,534) 93 (41,129) 174 (620,663) 267
– Other3 2,704 (84) (4,175) (11) (1,471) (95)
As reported in the Summary of credit risk (excluding
debt instruments measured at FVOCI) by stage
distribution and ECL coverage by industry sector at 31
Dec 2023 1,034,912 (8,603) 705,638 (2,892) 1,740,550 (11,495)
Other financial assets at amortised cost 960,271 (422)
Total reported in the Summary of credit risk (excluding
debt instruments measured at FVOCI) by stage
distribution and ECL coverage by industry sector at 31
Dec 2023 2,700,821 (11,917)
1 Comprises wholesale defaulted obligors, retail portfolios utilising less complex modelling approaches, private banking and insurance.
2 The sensitivity analysis includes certain items reported in Other assets at amortised cost, which are not allocated to an industry in the credit tables. It also
includes FVOCI and performance guarantees, which are presented separately in the credit tables.
3 Includes FX and other operational variances.
Reconciliations of changes in gross carrying/nominal amount and allowances
for loans and advances to banks and customers including loan commitments
and financial guarantees
The following disclosure provides a reconciliation by stage of the The transfers of financial instruments represents the impact of stage
Group’s gross carrying/nominal amount and allowances for loans and transfers upon the gross carrying/nominal amount and associated
advances to banks and customers, including loan commitments and allowance for ECL.
financial guarantees.
The net remeasurement of ECL arising from transfer of stage
In addition, a reconciliation by stage of the Group’s gross carrying represents the increase or decrease due to these transfers, for
amount and allowances for loans and advances to banks and example, moving from a 12-month (stage 1) to a lifetime (stage 2)
customers and a reconciliation by stage of the Group’s nominal ECL measurement basis. Net remeasurement excludes the
amount and allowances for loan commitments and financial underlying customer risk rating (‘CRR’)/probability of default (‘PD’)
guarantees, were included in this section following adoption of the movements of the financial instruments transferring stage. This is
recommendations of the third report from The Taskforce on captured, along with other credit quality movements in the ‘changes
Disclosures about Expected Credit Losses (‘DECL’). to risk parameters – credit quality’ line item.
Movements are calculated on a quarterly basis and therefore fully Changes in ‘Net new and further lending/repayments’ represents the
capture stage movements between quarters. If movements were impact from volume movements within the Group’s lending portfolio
calculated on a year-to-date basis they would only reflect the opening and includes ‘New financial assets originated or purchased’, ‘assets
and closing position of the financial instrument. derecognised (including final repayments)’ and ‘changes to risk
parameters – further lending/repayment’.
Risk
review

[PAGE 164]

Risk review
Reconciliation of changes in gross carrying/nominal amount and allowances for loans and advances to banks and customers including
loan commitments and financial guarantees
(Audited)
Non-credit impaired Credit impaired
Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI Total
Gross Gross Gross Gross Gross
carrying/ carrying/ carrying/ carrying/ carrying/
nominal Allowance nominal Allowance nominal Allowance nominal Allowance nominal Allowance
amount for ECL amount for ECL amount for ECL amount for ECL amount for ECL
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
At 1 Jan 2024 1,496,805 (1,300) 153,084 (3,102) 20,799 (7,063) 85 (30) 1,670,773 (11,495)
Transfers of financial
instruments: (19,629) (1,259) 6,652 2,302 12,977 (1,043) — — — —
– transfers from stage 1 to
stage 2 (116,211) 419 116,211 (419) — — — — — —
– transfers from stage 2 to
stage 1 98,731 (1,627) (98,731) 1,627 — — — — — —
– transfers to stage 3 (2,799) 16 (12,230) 1,321 15,029 (1,337) — — — —
– transfers from stage 3 650 (67) 1,402 (227) (2,052) 294 — — — —
Net remeasurement of ECL
arising from transfer of
stage — 959 — (831) — (144) — — — (16)
Changes due to
modifications not
derecognised — — — — (25) — — — (25) —
Net new and further
lending/repayments 87,833 (168) (37,731) 589 (5,246) 1,689 7 (7) 44,863 2,103
Changes to risk parameters
– credit quality — 363 — (1,773) — (3,945) — (11) — (5,366)
Changes to models used
for ECL calculation — 68 — (4) — (20) — — — 44
Assets written off — — — — (4,459) 4,459 — — (4,459) 4,459
Credit-related modifications
that resulted in
derecognition — — — — — — — — — —
Foreign exchange and
others1, 2, 3 (75,322) 105 (6,107) 145 (223) (81) 1 (3) (81,651) 166
At 31 Dec 2024 1,489,687 (1,232) 115,898 (2,674) 23,823 (6,148) 93 (51) 1,629,501 (10,105)
ECL income statement
change for the period 1,222 (2,019) (2,420) (18) (3,235)
Recoveries 260
Others (158)
Total ECL income
statement change for the
period (3,133)
1 Total includes $3.7bn of gross carrying loans and advances to customers and banks, which were classified to assets held for sale, and a corresponding allowance
for ECL of $46m, reflecting business disposals as disclosed in Note 23 ‘Assets held for sale and liabilities of disposal groups held for sale’ on page 411.
2 Total includes $35.3bn of nominal amount and $21m of corresponding allowance for ECL related to derecognition of loan commitments and financial guarantees
following the sale of our banking business in Canada during 2024.
3 Total includes $2.7bn of nominal amount related to derecognition of loan commitments and financial guarantees following the sale of our banking business in
Argentina during 2024.
12 months ended
At 31 Dec 2024 31 Dec 2024
Gross carrying/
nominal amount Allowance for ECL ECL charge
$m $m $m
As above 1,629,501 (10,105) (3,133)
Other financial assets measured at amortised cost 828,580 (92) (114)
Non-trading reverse purchase agreement commitments 49,289 — —
Performance and other guarantees not considered for IFRS 9 — — (173)
Summary of financial instruments to which the impairment requirements in IFRS 9 are
applied/Summary consolidated income statement 2,507,370 (10,197) (3,420)
Debt instruments measured at FVOCI 346,124 (54) 6
Total allowance for ECL/total income statement ECL change for the period n/a (10,251) (3,414)
As shown in the previous table, the allowance for ECL for loans and – $2,103m relating to volume movements, which included the
advances to customers and banks and relevant loan commitments allowance for ECL associated with new originations, assets
and financial guarantees decreased $1,390m during the period from derecognised and further lending/repayment;
$11,495m at 31 December 2023 to $10,105m at 31 December 2024.
– foreign exchange and other movements of $166m; and
This decrease was driven by: – $44m of changes to models used for ECL calculation.
– $4,459m of assets written off;

[PAGE 165]

These were partly offset by: including the credit quality impact of financial instruments transferring
between stages and $16m relating to the net remeasurement impact
– $5,366m relating to credit quality changes, including the credit
of stage transfers.
quality impact of financial instruments transferring between
stages; and This was partly offset by $2,103m relating to underlying net book
volume movement and $44m in changes to models used for ECL
– $16m relating to the net remeasurement impact of stage
calculation.
transfers.
The ECL charge for the period of $3,235m presented in the previous Summary views of the movement in wholesale and personal lending
table consisted of $5,366m relating to credit quality changes, are presented on pages 173 and 185.
Reconciliation of changes in gross carrying/nominal amount and allowances for loans and advances to banks and customers including
loan commitments and financial guarantees
(Audited)
Non-credit impaired Credit impaired
Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI Total
Allowance/ Allowance/ Allowance/ Allowance/ Allowance/
Gross provision Gross provision Gross provision Gross provision Gross provision
exposure for ECL exposure for ECL exposure for ECL exposure for ECL exposure for ECL
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
At 1 Jan 2023 1,433,643 (1,257) 177,223 (3,710) 21,207 (6,949) 129 (38) 1,632,202 (11,954)
Transfers of financial instruments: (18,948) (1,048) 10,286 2,228 8,662 (1,180) — — — —
– transfers from stage 1 to
stage 2 (150,728) 442 150,728 (442) — — — — — —
– transfers from stage 2 to
stage 1 133,079 (1,467) (133,079) 1,467 — — — — — —
– transfers to stage 3 (1,986) 23 (8,600) 1,379 10,586 (1,402) — — — —
– transfers from stage 3 687 (46) 1,237 (176) (1,924) 222 — — — —
Net remeasurement of ECL
arising from transfer of stage — 917 — (973) — (124) — — — (180)
Net new and further lending/
repayments 77,693 (185) (36,795) 661 (4,956) 1,117 (36) 3 35,906 1,596
Changes to risk parameters –
credit quality — 307 — (1,262) — (3,896) — 21 — (4,830)
Changes to models used for ECL
calculation — (22) — 46 — 7 — — — 31
Assets written off — — — — (3,922) 3,922 — — (3,922) 3,922
Credit-related modifications that
resulted in derecognition — — — — (119) 95 — — (119) 95
Foreign exchange and others1 4,417 (12) 2,370 (92) (73) (55) (8) (16) 6,706 (175)
At 31 Dec 2023 1,496,805 (1,300) 153,084 (3,102) 20,799 (7,063) 85 (30) 1,670,773 (11,495)
ECL income statement change for
the period 1,017 (1,528) (2,896) 24 (3,383)
Recoveries 268
Others — — — — — — — — — (195)
Total ECL income statement
change for the period (3,310)
1 Total includes $7.7bn of gross carrying loans and advances to customers and banks, which were classified to assets held for sale, and a corresponding allowance
for ECL of $70m, reflecting business disposals as disclosed in Note 23 ‘Assets held for sale and liabilities of disposal groups held for sale’ on page 411.
(Audited)
12 months ended
At 31 Dec 2023 31 Dec 2023
Gross carrying/ Allowance for
nominal amount ECL ECL charge
$m $m $m
As above 1,670,773 (11,495) (3,310)
Other financial assets measured at amortised cost 960,271 (422) (35)
Non-trading reverse purchase agreement commitments 69,777 — —
Performance and other guarantees not considered for IFRS 9 — — (44)
Summary of financial instruments to which the impairment requirements in IFRS 9 are
applied/Summary consolidated income statement 2,700,821 (11,917) (3,389)
Debt instruments measured at FVOCI 302,348 (97) (58)
Total allowance for ECL/total income statement ECL change for the period n/a (12,014) (3,447)
Risk
review

[PAGE 166]

Risk review
Reconciliation of changes in gross carrying amount and allowances for loans and advances to banks and customers
Non-credit impaired Credit impaired
Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI Total
Gross Gross Gross Gross Gross
carrying Allowance carrying Allowance carrying Allowance carrying Allowance carrying Allowance
amount for ECL amount for ECL amount for ECL amount for ECL amount for ECL
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
At 1 Jan 2024 920,863 (1,140) 122,307 (2,967) 19,275 (6,952) 81 (30) 1,062,526 (11,089)
Transfers of financial instruments: (19,794) (1,227) 7,344 2,259 12,450 (1,032) — — — —
– transfers from stage 1 to stage 2 (90,611) 404 90,611 (404) — — — — — —
– transfers from stage 2 to stage 1 72,935 (1,580) (72,935) 1,580 — — — — — —
– transfers to stage 3 (2,559) 16 (11,512) 1,310 14,071 (1,326) — — — —
– transfers from stage 3 441 (67) 1,180 (227) (1,621) 294 — — — —
Net remeasurement of ECL arising
from transfer of stage — 932 — (801) — (144) — — — (13)
Changes due to modifications not
derecognised — — — — (25) — — — (25) —
Net new and further lending/
repayments 52,439 (161) (33,154) 570 (4,535) 1,606 7 (7) 14,757 2,008
Changes to risk parameters – credit
quality — 361 — (1,724) — (3,873) — (11) — (5,247)
Changes to models used for ECL
calculation — 66 — (18) — (20) — — — 28
Assets written off — — — — (4,459) 4,459 — — (4,459) 4,459
Credit-related modifications that
resulted in derecognition — — — — — — — — — —
Foreign exchange and others1 (27,236) 82 (3,051) 133 (89) (86) 2 (3) (30,374) 126
At 31 Dec 2024 926,272 (1,087) 93,446 (2,548) 22,617 (6,042) 90 (51) 1,042,425 (9,728)
ECL income statement change for
the period 1,198 (1,973) (2,431) (18) (3,224)
Recoveries 260
Others (161)
Total ECL income statement
change for the period (3,125)
1 Total includes $3.7bn of gross carrying loans and advances to customers and banks, which were classified to assets held for sale, and a corresponding allowance
for ECL of $46m, reflecting business disposals as disclosed in Note 23 ‘Assets held for sale and liabilities of disposal groups held for sale’ on page 411.
Reconciliation of changes in gross carrying amount and allowances for loans and advances to banks and customers (continued)
Non-credit impaired Credit impaired
Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI Total
Gross Gross Gross Gross Gross
carrying Allowance carrying Allowance carrying Allowance carrying Allowance carrying Allowance
amount for ECL amount for ECL amount for ECL amount for ECL amount for ECL
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
At 1 Jan 2023 879,023 (1,109) 140,816 (3,518) 19,586 (6,851) 129 (38) 1,039,554 (11,516)
Transfers of financial instruments: (19,276) (980) 11,250 2,154 8,026 (1,174) — — — —
– transfers from stage 1 to stage 2 (108,758) 423 108,758 (423) — — — — — —
– transfers from stage 2 to stage 1 90,655 (1,382) (90,655) 1,382 — — — — — —
– transfers to stage 3 (1,692) 22 (7,975) 1,367 9,667 (1,389) — — — —
– transfers from stage 3 519 (43) 1,122 (172) (1,641) 215 — — — —
Net remeasurement of ECL arising
from transfer of stage — 859 — (934) — (118) — — — (193)
Net new and further lending/
repayments 55,024 (210) (32,069) 685 (4,233) 1,026 (40) 3 18,682 1,504
Changes to risk parameters – credit
quality — 311 — (1,292) — (3,804) — 21 — (4,764)
Changes to models used for ECL
calculation — (17) — 28 — 7 — — — 18
Assets written off — — — — (3,922) 3,922 — — (3,922) 3,922
Credit-related modifications that
resulted in derecognition — — — — (119) 95 — — (119) 95
Foreign exchange and others1 6,092 6 2,310 (90) (63) (55) (8) (16) 8,331 (155)
At 31 Dec 2023 920,863 (1,140) 122,307 (2,967) 19,275 (6,952) 81 (30) 1,062,526 (11,089)
ECL income statement change for
the period 943 (1,513) (2,889) 24 (3,435)
Recoveries 268
Others (203)
Total ECL income statement
change for the period (3,370)
1 Total includes $7.7bn of gross carrying loans and advances to customers and banks, which were classified to assets held for sale, and a corresponding allowance
for ECL of $70m, reflecting business disposals as disclosed in Note 23 ‘Assets held for sale and liabilities of disposal groups held for sale’ on page 411.

[PAGE 167]

Reconciliation of changes in nominal amount and allowances for loan commitments and financial guarantees
Non-credit impaired Credit impaired
Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI Total
Nominal Allowance Nominal Allowance Nominal Allowance Nominal Allowance Nominal Allowance
amount for ECL amount for ECL amount for ECL amount for ECL amount for ECL
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
At 1 Jan 2024 575,942 (160) 30,777 (135) 1,524 (111) 4 — 608,247 (406)
Transfers of financial instruments: 165 (32) (692) 43 527 (11) — — — —
– transfers from stage 1 to
stage 2 (25,600) 15 25,600 (15) — — — — — —
– transfers from stage 2 to
stage 1 25,796 (47) (25,796) 47 — — — — — —
– transfers to stage 3 (240) — (718) 11 958 (11) — — — —
– transfers from stage 3 209 — 222 — (431) — — — — —
Net remeasurement of ECL
arising from transfer of stage — 27 — (30) — — — — — (3)
Net new and further lending/
repayments 35,394 (7) (4,577) 19 (711) 83 — — 30,106 95
Changes to risk parameters –
credit quality — 2 — (49) — (72) — — — (119)
Changes to models used for ECL
calculation — 2 — 14 — — — — — 16
Foreign exchange and others1,2 (48,086) 23 (3,056) 12 (134) 5 (1) — (51,277) 40
At 31 Dec 2024 563,415 (145) 22,452 (126) 1,206 (106) 3 — 587,076 (377)
ECL income statement change
for the period 24 (46) 11 — (11)
Recoveries —
Others 3
Total ECL income statement
change for the period (8)
1 Total includes $35.3bn of nominal amount and $21m of corresponding allowance for ECL related to derecognition of loan commitments and financial guarantees
following the sale of our banking business in Canada during 2024.
2 Total includes $2.7bn of nominal amount related to derecognition of loan commitments and financial guarantees following the sale of our banking business in
Argentina during 2024.
Reconciliation of changes in nominal amount and allowances for loan commitments and financial guarantees
Non-credit impaired Credit impaired
Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI Total
Nominal Allowance Nominal Allowance Nominal Allowance Nominal Allowance Nominal Allowance
amount for ECL amount for ECL amount for ECL amount for ECL amount for ECL
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
At 1 Jan 2023 554,620 (148) 36,407 (192) 1,621 (98) — — 592,648 (438)
Transfers of financial instruments: 328 (68) (964) 74 636 (6) — — — —
– transfers from stage 1 to
stage 2 (41,970) 19 41,970 (19) — — — — — —
– transfers from stage 2 to
stage 1 42,424 (85) (42,424) 85 — — — — — —
– transfers to stage 3 (294) 1 (625) 12 919 (13) — — — —
– transfers from stage 3 168 (3) 115 (4) (283) 7 — — — —
Net remeasurement of ECL
arising from transfer of stage — 58 — (39) — (6) — — — 13
Net new and further lending/
repayments 22,669 25 (4,726) (24) (723) 91 4 — 17,224 92
Changes to risk parameters –
credit quality — (4) — 30 — (92) — — — (66)
Changes to models used for ECL
calculation — (5) — 18 — — — — — 13
Foreign exchange and others (1,675) (18) 60 (2) (10) — — — (1,625) (20)
At 31 Dec 2023 575,942 (160) 30,777 (135) 1,524 (111) 4 — 608,247 (406)
ECL income statement change
for the period 74 (15) (7) — 52
Recoveries —
Others 8
Total ECL income statement
change for the period 60
Risk
review

[PAGE 168]

Risk review
Credit quality
Credit quality of financial instruments
(Audited)
We assess the credit quality of all financial instruments that are The five credit quality classifications provided below each encompass
subject to credit risk. The credit quality of financial instruments is a a range of granular internal credit rating grades assigned to wholesale
point-in-time assessment of PD, whereas stages 1 and 2 are and personal lending businesses and the external ratings attributed by
determined based on relative deterioration of credit quality since initial external agencies to debt securities, as shown in the table on
recognition for the majority of portfolios. Accordingly, for non-credit- page 139.
impaired financial instruments, there is no direct relationship between
the credit quality assessment and stages 1 and 2, although typically
the lower credit quality bands exhibit a higher proportion in stage 2.
Distribution of financial instruments by credit quality at 31 December 2024
(Audited)
Gross carrying/notional amount Allowance
for ECL/
Sub- Credit other credit
Strong Good Satisfactory standard impaired Total provisions Net
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
In-scope for IFRS 9 ECL
Loans and advances to customers held at
amortised cost 515,266 193,080 186,416 22,906 22,705 940,373 (9,715) 930,658
– personal 360,317 53,595 27,774 1,979 3,560 447,225 (2,524) 444,701
– corporate and commercial 114,504 118,785 138,705 20,224 18,466 410,684 (6,755) 403,929
– non-bank financial institutions 40,445 20,700 19,937 703 679 82,464 (436) 82,028
Loans and advances to banks held at amortised
cost 92,621 4,255 5,040 134 2 102,052 (13) 102,039
Cash and balances at central banks 266,713 949 12 — — 267,674 — 267,674
Hong Kong Government certificates of
indebtedness 42,293 — — — — 42,293 — 42,293
Reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading 155,831 70,877 25,799 42 — 252,549 — 252,549
Financial investments 146,970 3,681 3,331 — — 153,982 (9) 153,973
Assets held for sale 2,425 458 367 1 22 3,273 (4) 3,269
Other assets 88,338 9,735 10,151 454 131 108,809 (79) 108,730
– endorsements and acceptances 2,101 2,663 3,090 243 10 8,107 (14) 8,093
– accrued income and other 86,237 7,072 7,061 211 121 100,702 (65) 100,637
Debt instruments measured at fair value
through other comprehensive income1 336,313 9,448 7,768 380 — 353,909 (54) 353,855
Out-of-scope for IFRS 9 ECL
Trading assets 119,546 21,951 15,804 2,300 47 159,648 — 159,648
Other financial assets designated and otherwise
mandatorily measured at fair value through profit
or loss 53,282 11,862 4,390 231 11 69,776 — 69,776
Derivatives 224,870 34,124 9,373 258 12 268,637 — 268,637
Assets held for sale 3,019 — — — — 3,019 — 3,019
Total gross carrying amount on balance sheet 2,047,487 360,420 268,451 26,706 22,930 2,725,994 (9,874) 2,716,120
Percentage of total credit quality (%) 75.1 13.2 9.9 1.0 0.8 100
Loan and other credit-related commitments 400,120 131,396 77,220 9,670 961 619,367 (348) 619,019
Financial guarantees 7,365 4,263 4,399 723 248 16,998 (29) 16,969
In-scope: Irrevocable loan commitments and
financial guarantees 407,485 135,659 81,619 10,393 1,209 636,365 (377) 635,988
Loan and other credit-related commitments 96,952 76,340 65,619 2,847 453 242,211 — 242,211
Performance and other guarantees 39,940 32,956 17,339 1,671 817 92,723 (312) 92,411
Out-of-scope: Revocable loan commitments
and non-financial guarantees 136,892 109,296 82,958 4,518 1,270 334,934 (312) 334,622
1 For the purposes of this disclosure, gross carrying amount is defined as the amortised cost of a financial asset before adjusting for any loss allowance. As such,
the gross carrying amount of debt instruments at FVOCI as presented above will not reconcile to the balance sheet as it excludes fair value gains and losses.

[PAGE 169]

Distribution of financial instruments by credit quality at 31 December 2023
(Audited)
Gross carrying/notional amount Allowance
for ECL/
Sub- Credit other credit
Strong Good Satisfactory standard impaired Total provisions Net
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
In-scope for IFRS 9 ECL
Loans and advances to customers held at
amortised cost 497,665 206,476 197,582 28,532 19,354 949,609 (11,074) 938,535
– personal 346,562 62,656 32,314 2,485 3,505 447,522 (2,867) 444,655
– corporate and commercial 118,123 123,713 145,249 25,531 15,039 427,655 (7,803) 419,852
– non-bank financial institutions 32,980 20,107 20,019 516 810 74,432 (404) 74,028
Loans and advances to banks held at amortised
cost 101,057 4,640 6,363 855 2 112,917 (15) 112,902
Cash and balances at central banks 284,723 1,068 77 — — 285,868 — 285,868
Hong Kong Government certificates of
indebtedness 42,024 — — — — 42,024 — 42,024
Reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading 170,494 46,884 34,206 633 — 252,217 — 252,217
Financial investments 143,333 3,814 1,137 62 — 148,346 (20) 148,326
Assets held for sale 68,501 16,403 14,812 2,939 531 103,186 (324) 102,862
Other assets 106,184 11,982 9,965 366 133 128,630 (78) 128,552
– endorsements and acceptances 2,405 2,666 2,707 161 18 7,957 (18) 7,939
– accrued income and other 103,779 9,316 7,258 205 115 120,673 (60) 120,613
Debt instruments measured at fair value through
other comprehensive income1 288,959 12,037 7,897 805 5 309,703 (97) 309,606
Out-of-scope for IFRS 9 ECL
Trading assets 122,695 20,595 20,746 1,326 135 165,497 — 165,497
Other financial assets designated and otherwise
mandatorily measured at fair value through profit
or loss 52,649 11,517 4,733 84 6 68,989 — 68,989
Derivatives 196,098 27,377 6,041 187 11 229,714 — 229,714
Assets held for sale 12,495 — — — — 12,495 — 12,495
Total gross carrying amount on balance sheet 2,086,877 362,793 303,559 35,789 20,177 2,809,195 (11,608) 2,797,587
Percentage of total credit quality (%) 74.3 12.9 10.8 1.3 0.7 100
Loan and other credit-related commitments 436,359 142,500 73,230 7,782 1,144 661,015 (367) 660,648
Financial guarantees 7,700 4,146 4,080 699 384 17,009 (39) 16,970
In-scope: Irrevocable loan commitments and
financial guarantees 444,059 146,646 77,310 8,481 1,528 678,024 (406) 677,618
Loan and other credit-related commitments 92,509 77,891 61,462 3,896 377 236,135 — 236,135
Performance and other guarantees 39,784 32,231 19,445 1,853 964 94,277 (145) 94,132
Out-of-scope: Revocable loan commitments and
non-financial guarantees 132,293 110,122 80,907 5,749 1,341 330,412 (145) 330,267
1 For the purposes of this disclosure, gross carrying amount is defined as the amortised cost of a financial asset before adjusting for any loss allowance. As such,
the gross carrying amount of debt instruments at FVOCI as presented above will not reconcile to the balance sheet as it excludes fair value gains and losses.
Risk
review

[PAGE 170]

Risk review
Distribution of financial instruments to which the impairment requirements in IFRS 9 are applied, by credit quality and stage allocation
(Audited)
Gross carrying/notional amount
Sub- Credit Allowance
Strong Good Satisfactory standard impaired Total for ECL Net
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Loans and advances to customers at amortised cost 515,266 193,080 186,416 22,906 22,705 940,373 (9,715) 930,658
– stage 1 498,415 170,420 150,818 4,767 — 824,420 (1,078) 823,342
– stage 2 16,851 22,660 35,598 18,139 — 93,248 (2,546) 90,702
– stage 3 — — — — 22,615 22,615 (6,040) 16,575
– POCI — — — — 90 90 (51) 39
Loans and advances to banks at amortised cost 92,621 4,255 5,040 134 2 102,052 (13) 102,039
– stage 1 92,528 4,226 4,981 117 — 101,852 (9) 101,843
– stage 2 93 29 59 17 — 198 (2) 196
– stage 3 — — — — 2 2 (2) —
– POCI — — — — — — — —
Other financial assets measured at amortised cost 702,570 85,700 39,660 497 153 828,580 (92) 828,488
– stage 1 702,373 85,032 38,977 239 — 826,621 (64) 826,557
– stage 2 197 668 683 258 — 1,806 (5) 1,801
– stage 3 — — — — 153 153 (23) 130
– POCI — — — — — — — —
Loan and other credit-related commitments 400,120 131,396 77,220 9,670 961 619,367 (348) 619,019
– stage 1 398,779 125,956 67,949 4,547 — 597,231 (137) 597,094
– stage 2 1,341 5,440 9,271 5,123 — 21,175 (121) 21,054
– stage 3 — — — — 958 958 (90) 868
– POCI — — — — 3 3 — 3
Financial guarantees 7,365 4,263 4,399 723 248 16,998 (29) 16,969
– stage 1 7,352 4,192 3,625 184 — 15,353 (8) 15,345
– stage 2 13 71 774 539 — 1,397 (5) 1,392
– stage 3 — — — — 248 248 (16) 232
– POCI — — — — — — — —
At 31 Dec 2024 1,717,942 418,694 312,735 33,930 24,069 2,507,370 (10,197) 2,497,173
Debt instruments at FVOCI1
– stage 1 336,264 9,448 7,290 — — 353,002 (31) 352,971
– stage 2 49 — 478 380 — 907 (23) 884
– stage 3 — — — — — — — —
– POCI — — — — — — — —
At 31 Dec 2024 336,313 9,448 7,768 380 — 353,909 (54) 353,855
Loans and advances to customers at amortised cost 497,665 206,476 197,582 28,532 19,354 949,609 (11,074) 938,535
– stage 1 478,422 177,410 147,940 5,612 — 809,384 (1,130) 808,254
– stage 2 19,243 29,066 49,642 22,920 — 120,871 (2,964) 117,907
– stage 3 — — — — 19,273 19,273 (6,950) 12,323
– POCI — — — — 81 81 (30) 51
Loans and advances to banks at amortised cost 101,057 4,640 6,363 855 2 112,917 (15) 112,902
– stage 1 101,011 4,631 5,550 287 — 111,479 (10) 111,469
– stage 2 46 9 813 568 — 1,436 (3) 1,433
– stage 3 — — — — 2 2 (2) —
– POCI — — — — — — — —
Other financial assets measured at amortised cost 815,259 80,151 60,197 4,000 664 960,271 (422) 959,849
– stage 1 814,776 78,486 53,095 516 — 946,873 (109) 946,764
– stage 2 483 1,665 7,102 3,484 — 12,734 (132) 12,602
– stage 3 — — — — 664 664 (181) 483
– POCI — — — — — — — —
Loan and other credit-related commitments 436,359 142,500 73,230 7,782 1,144 661,015 (367) 660,648
– stage 1 432,017 135,192 61,213 2,527 — 630,949 (153) 630,796
– stage 2 4,342 7,308 12,017 5,255 — 28,922 (128) 28,794
– stage 3 — — — — 1,140 1,140 (86) 1,054
– POCI — — — — 4 4 — 4
Financial guarantees 7,700 4,146 4,080 699 384 17,009 (39) 16,970
– stage 1 7,497 3,943 3,204 102 — 14,746 (7) 14,739
– stage 2 203 203 876 597 — 1,879 (7) 1,872
– stage 3 — — — — 384 384 (25) 359
– POCI — — — — — — — —
At 31 Dec 2023 1,858,040 437,913 341,452 41,868 21,548 2,700,821 (11,917) 2,688,904
Debt instruments at FVOCI1
– stage 1 288,909 12,037 7,579 — — 308,525 (37) 308,488
– stage 2 50 — 318 805 — 1,173 (59) 1,114
– stage 3 — — — — 5 5 (1) 4
– POCI — — — — — — — —
At 31 Dec 2023 288,959 12,037 7,897 805 5 309,703 (97) 309,606
1 For the purposes of this disclosure, gross carrying amount is defined as the amortised cost of a financial asset before adjusting for any loss allowance. As such,
the gross carrying amount of debt instruments at FVOCI as presented above will not reconcile to the balance sheet as it excludes fair value gains and losses.

[PAGE 171]

Credit-impaired loans
(Audited)
We determine that a financial instrument is credit impaired and in definitions of credit impaired and default are aligned as far as
stage 3 by considering relevant objective evidence, primarily whether: possible so that stage 3 represents all loans that are considered
defaulted or otherwise credit impaired.
– contractual payments of either principal or interest are past due for
more than 90 days; Forbearance
– there are other indications that the borrower is unlikely to pay,
The following table shows the gross carrying amount and allowance
such as when a concession has been granted to the borrower for
for ECL of the Group’s holdings of forborne loans and advances to
economic or legal reasons relating to the borrower’s financial
customers by industry sector and by stages.
condition; and
– the loan is otherwise considered to be in default. If such A summary of our current policies and practices for forbearance is set out in
unlikeliness to pay is not identified at an earlier stage, it is deemed ‘Credit risk management’ on page 139.
to occur when an exposure is 90 days past due. Therefore, the
Forborne loans and advances to customers at amortised cost by stage allocation
Performing forborne Non-performing forborne Total forborne
Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI Total
$m $m $m $m
Gross carrying amount
Personal 545 1,424 — 1,969
– first lien residential mortgages 266 1,040 — 1,306
– second lien residential mortgages 1 3 — 4
– guaranteed loans in respect of residential property 32 7 — 39
– other personal lending which is secured — 7 — 7
– credit cards 86 87 — 173
– other personal lending which is unsecured 147 280 — 427
– motor vehicle finance 13 — — 13
Wholesale 4,325 7,542 85 11,952
– corporate and commercial 4,247 7,351 85 11,683
– non-bank financial institutions 78 191 — 269
At 31 Dec 2024 4,870 8,966 85 13,921
Allowance for ECL
Personal (73) (305) — (378)
– first lien residential mortgages (12) (148) — (160)
– second lien residential mortgages — — — —
– guaranteed loans in respect of residential property (1) (1) — (2)
– other personal lending which is secured — (2) — (2)
– credit cards (17) (45) — (62)
– other personal lending which is unsecured (38) (109) — (147)
– motor vehicle finance (5) — — (5)
Wholesale (461) (2,008) (51) (2,520)
– corporate and commercial (460) (1,972) (51) (2,483)
– non-bank financial institutions (1) (36) — (37)
At 31 Dec 2024 (534) (2,313) (51) (2,898)
Gross carrying amount
Personal 816 1,282 — 2,098
– first lien residential mortgages 530 815 — 1,345
– second lien residential mortgages 1 8 — 9
– guaranteed loans in respect of residential property 24 20 — 44
– other personal lending which is secured 1 6 — 7
– credit cards 96 83 — 179
– other personal lending which is unsecured 155 349 — 504
– motor vehicle finance 9 1 — 10
Wholesale 5,848 5,505 68 11,421
– corporate and commercial 5,778 5,459 68 11,305
– non-bank financial institutions 70 46 — 116
At 31 Dec 2023 6,664 6,787 68 13,519
Allowance for ECL
Personal (113) (307) — (420)
– first lien residential mortgages (50) (113) — (163)
– second lien residential mortgages — (3) — (3)
– guaranteed loans in respect of residential property — (2) — (2)
– other personal lending which is secured — (1) — (1)
– credit cards (17) (46) — (63)
– other personal lending which is unsecured (43) (142) — (185)
– motor vehicle finance (3) — — (3)
Wholesale (259) (1,932) (28) (2,219)
– corporate and commercial (257) (1,920) (28) (2,205)
– non-bank financial institutions (2) (12) — (14)
At 31 Dec 2023 (372) (2,239) (28) (2,639)
Risk
review

[PAGE 172]

Risk review
Forborne loans and advances to customers by legal entities
The
Hongkong HSBC HSBC
and Shanghai Bank North Grupo
Banking Middle America Financiero Other
HSBC UK HSBC Bank Corporation East Holdings HSBC, S.A. trading
Bank plc plc Limited Limited Inc. de C.V. entities Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Gross carrying amount
Performing forborne 1,251 1,506 1,073 10 787 201 42 4,870
Non-performing forborne 2,231 1,578 3,698 460 464 355 265 9,051
At 31 Dec 2024 3,482 3,084 4,771 470 1,251 556 307 13,921
Allowance for ECL
Performing forborne (101) (36) (296) (1) (52) (48) — (534)
Non-performing forborne (393) (464) (943) (196) (71) (127) (170) (2,364)
At 31 Dec 2024 (494) (500) (1,239) (197) (123) (175) (170) (2,898)
Gross carrying amount
Performing forborne 1,478 2,081 1,574 31 954 503 43 6,664
Non-performing forborne 1,936 1,199 2,250 471 430 233 336 6,855
At 31 Dec 2023 3,414 3,280 3,824 502 1,384 736 379 13,519
Allowance for ECL
Performing forborne (75) (25) (142) (1) (43) (84) (2) (372)
Non-performing forborne (289) (400) (986) (225) (74) (126) (167) (2,267)
At 31 Dec 2023 (364) (425) (1,128) (226) (117) (210) (169) (2,639)
Wholesale lending
This section presents further disclosures related to wholesale lending. On a constant currency basis, stage 3 gross loans and advances to
It provides details of the main legal entities, countries and customer customers increased by $3.7bn, primarily driven by corporate and
classification that are driving the change observed in wholesale loans commercial exposure (up $3.8bn) driven by defaults in commercial
and advances to banks and customers, with the impact of foreign real estate lending in Hong Kong, which are generally well
exchange separately identified. collateralised. There was a decrease in the associated allowance for
ECL due to write-offs of heavily-impaired exposures.
This section also provides reconciliations of the opening 1 January
2024 to 31 December 2024 closing gross carrying/nominal amounts At 31 December 2024, the write-offs attributable to wholesale lending
and the associated allowance for ECL. Further granularity is also increased by $0.3bn to $2.9bn, compared with 31 December 2023.
provided by stage, with data for our main legal entities presented for
The allowance for ECL attributable to loans and advances to banks
gross loans and advances to banks and customers, loan and other
and customers of $7.2bn at 31 December 2024 decreased by $1.0bn
credit-related commitments and financial guarantees.
from $8.2bn at 31 December 2023. This included adverse foreign
At 31 December 2024, wholesale lending for gross loans and exchange movements of $0.2bn.
advances to banks and customers of $595.2bn decreased by $19.8bn
On a constant currency basis, the allowance for ECL attributable to
on a reported basis, compared with 31 December 2023. Excluding
corporate and commercial loans and advances decreased by $0.8bn,
adverse foreign exchange movements of $16.3bn, total wholesale
largely due to the write-offs of heavily-impaired exposures in ‘real
lending decreased by $3.5bn.
estate and construction’, mainly in Hong Kong. The allowance for ECL
On a constant currency basis, the wholesale loans and advances to attributable to loans and advances to non-bank financial institutions
customers grew by $3.0bn, mainly driven by an increase in non-bank remained broadly stable.
financial institutions (up $9.6bn), partly offset by a decrease in
On a reported basis, loan commitments and financial guarantees of
corporate and commercial lending (down $6.6bn).
$381.7bn decreased by $38.2bn compared with 31 December 2023.
The increase in non-bank financial institutions of $9.6bn was largely Excluding adverse foreign exchange movements of $14.0bn, financial
driven by growth in balances in HSBC Bank plc (up $4.2bn), in our nominal amounts decreased by $14.8bn, and corporate and
legal entities in Asia (up $2.2bn), in the US (up $1.2bn), in HSBC UK commercial nominal amounts decreased by $9.4bn.
(up $1.0bn) and in the Middle East (up $0.8bn).
The allowance for ECL attributable to loan commitments and financial
The decrease in corporate and commercial balances of $6.6bn, mainly guarantees at 31 December 2024 remained unchanged at $0.4bn.
in our legal entities in the US (down $2.9bn) and in Asia (down
The table below provides a breakdown by industry sector and stage of
$2.4bn), was driven by repayments, including in ‘real estate and
the Group’s gross carrying amount and allowances for ECL for
construction’ and in HSBC Bank plc (down $0.7bn). Additionally, there
wholesale loans and advances to banks and customers.
was a decrease of $0.5bn from the sale of our business in Argentina.
Counterparties or exposures are classified when presenting
On a constant currency basis, gross loans and advances to banks comparable economic characteristics, or engaged in similar activities
decreased by $6.5bn, mainly driven by lower central bank balances so that their collective ability to meet contractual obligations is
and money market lending balances in our legal entities in Asia (down uniformly affected by changes in economic, political or other
$9.1bn) and a decrease of $0.6bn from the sale of our business in conditions. Therefore, the industry classification does not adhere to
Argentina. This was partly offset by higher balances in our legal Nomenclature des Activités Économiques dans la Communauté
entities in the Middle East (up $3.6bn). Européenne (‘NACE’), which is applicable to other financial regulatory
reporting.
The decrease in stage 2 exposures on a constant currency basis
(down $19.5bn) was mainly driven by maturities, repayments and
new downgrades to stage 3 exposures, primarily in Asia.

[PAGE 173]

Total wholesale lending for loans and advances to banks and customers by stage distribution
Gross carrying amount Allowance for ECL
Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI Total Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Corporate and commercial 340,987 51,231 18,376 90 410,684 (463) (1,358) (4,883) (51) (6,755)
– agriculture, forestry and fishing 5,437 1,314 282 — 7,033 (14) (34) (46) — (94)
– mining and quarrying 6,811 463 318 — 7,592 (6) (7) (32) — (45)
– manufacturing 70,987 10,250 1,466 21 82,724 (83) (172) (618) (20) (893)
– electricity, gas, steam and air-
conditioning supply 15,277 971 209 — 16,457 (14) (23) (85) — (122)
– water supply, sewerage, waste
management and remediation 2,530 388 43 — 2,961 (4) (4) (16) — (24)
– real estate and construction 63,794 17,320 8,887 62 90,063 (90) (666) (1,811) (31) (2,598)
– of which: commercial real estate 49,994 14,720 7,558 61 72,333 (67) (604) (1,355) (29) (2,055)
– wholesale and retail trade, repair of
motor vehicles and motorcycles 66,977 8,125 2,725 3 77,830 (67) (117) (1,188) — (1,372)
– transportation and storage 18,589 3,637 417 — 22,643 (15) (74) (232) — (321)
– accommodation and food 11,406 1,718 1,610 — 14,734 (30) (55) (214) — (299)
– publishing, audiovisual and
broadcasting 18,181 1,416 229 — 19,826 (42) (55) (61) — (158)
– professional, scientific and technical
activities 23,044 2,436 644 4 26,128 (29) (49) (188) — (266)
– administrative and support services 17,671 1,707 739 — 20,117 (26) (40) (254) — (320)
– public administration and defence,
compulsory social security 64 — — — 64 — — — — —
– education 1,361 192 43 — 1,596 (4) (7) (16) — (27)
– health and care 3,357 489 184 — 4,030 (8) (18) (25) — (51)
– arts, entertainment and recreation 1,817 171 78 — 2,066 (5) (4) (26) — (35)
– other services 6,470 491 327 — 7,288 (24) (20) (66) — (110)
– activities of households 582 7 — — 589 — — — — —
– extra-territorial organisations and
bodies activities 118 — — — 118 — — — — —
– government 6,495 123 175 — 6,793 (2) — (5) — (7)
– asset-backed securities 19 13 — — 32 — (13) — — (13)
Non-bank financial institutions 79,687 2,098 679 — 82,464 (45) (30) (361) — (436)
Loans and advances to banks 101,852 198 2 — 102,052 (9) (2) (2) — (13)
At 31 Dec 2024 522,526 53,527 19,057 90 595,200 (517) (1,390) (5,246) (51) (7,204)
By legal entity
HSBC UK Bank plc 81,630 12,772 3,356 — 97,758 (197) (403) (603) — (1,203)
HSBC Bank plc1 85,022 5,843 2,305 47 93,217 (54) (111) (752) (22) (939)
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking
Corporation Limited 279,535 27,078 11,483 39 318,135 (170) (677) (2,999) (28) (3,874)
HSBC Bank Middle East Limited 26,359 951 848 4 28,162 (20) (6) (463) (1) (490)
HSBC North America Holdings Inc. 30,107 4,665 503 — 35,275 (31) (141) (121) — (293)
Grupo Financiero HSBC, S.A. de C.V. 11,957 1,703 230 — 13,890 (35) (48) (128) — (211)
Other trading entities1 7,840 515 332 — 8,687 (10) (4) (180) — (194)
Holding companies, shared service
centres and intra-Group eliminations 76 — — — 76 — — — — —
At 31 Dec 2024 522,526 53,527 19,057 90 595,200 (517) (1,390) (5,246) (51) (7,204)
1 At 31 December 2023, Other trading entities included gross carrying amount of $1,792m related to Private Banking entities that were reclassified to HSBC Bank
plc to continue the process of simplifying our structure in 2024 and gross carrying amount of $1,169m related to our business in Argentina which was sold on
6 December 2024.
Total wholesale lending for loans and other credit-related commitments and financial guarantees to banks and customers by stage distribution1
Nominal amount Allowance for ECL
Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI Total Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Corporate and commercial 241,249 18,685 1,033 3 260,970 (118) (121) (98) — (337)
Financial 118,430 2,196 87 — 120,713 (10) (5) (3) — (18)
At 31 Dec 2024 359,679 20,881 1,120 3 381,683 (128) (126) (101) — (355)
By legal entity
HSBC UK Bank plc 37,848 4,540 445 — 42,833 (27) (36) (57) — (120)
HSBC Bank plc 144,941 6,118 256 3 151,318 (21) (30) (21) — (72)
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking
Corporation Limited 72,860 3,973 99 — 76,932 (54) (32) (6) — (92)
HSBC Bank Middle East Limited 8,879 329 35 — 9,243 (5) (1) (10) — (16)
HSBC North America Holdings Inc. 91,314 5,723 226 — 97,263 (20) (26) (5) — (51)
HSBC Bank Canada — — — — — — — — — —
Grupo Financiero HSBC, S.A. de C.V. 2,334 53 — — 2,387 (1) (1) — — (2)
Other trading entities 1,503 145 59 — 1,707 — — (2) — (2)
At 31 Dec 2024 359,679 20,881 1,120 3 381,683 (128) (126) (101) — (355)
1 Included in loans and other credit-related commitments and financial guarantees is $49bn relating to unsettled reverse repurchase agreements, which once
drawn are classified as ‘Reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading’.
Risk
review

[PAGE 174]

Risk review
Total wholesale lending for loans and advances to banks and customers by stage distribution (continued)
Gross carrying amount Allowance for ECL
Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI Total Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Corporate and commercial 342,878 69,738 14,958 81 427,655 (499) (1,500) (5,774) (30) (7,803)
– agriculture, forestry and fishing 5,207 1,662 312 — 7,181 (13) (53) (64) — (130)
– mining and quarrying 6,260 638 325 — 7,223 (7) (11) (83) — (101)
– manufacturing 69,690 13,744 1,877 22 85,333 (89) (194) (839) (21) (1,143)
– electricity, gas, steam and air-
conditioning supply 12,817 1,283 255 — 14,355 (14) (17) (88) — (119)
– water supply, sewerage, waste
management and remediation 2,753 407 102 — 3,262 (5) (7) (51) — (63)
– real estate and construction 73,701 21,871 5,835 48 101,455 (96) (629) (2,554) (7) (3,286)
– of which: commercial real estate 59,883 19,107 4,552 47 83,589 (73) (603) (2,091) (7) (2,774)
– wholesale and retail trade, repair of
motor vehicles and motorcycles 66,083 10,676 2,358 4 79,121 (80) (127) (1,132) (2) (1,341)
– transportation and storage 17,117 3,894 445 — 21,456 (18) (52) (160) — (230)
– accommodation and food 9,681 5,135 1,058 — 15,874 (27) (118) (112) — (257)
– publishing, audiovisual and
broadcasting 17,455 2,066 210 — 19,731 (42) (81) (50) — (173)
– professional, scientific and technical
activities 22,686 3,327 733 7 26,753 (32) (63) (306) — (401)
– administrative and support services 19,055 2,551 597 — 22,203 (31) (63) (174) — (268)
– public administration and defence,
compulsory social security 1,037 5 — — 1,042 — — — — —
– education 1,137 277 46 — 1,460 (3) (8) (4) — (15)
– health and care 3,245 808 183 — 4,236 (9) (21) (26) — (56)
– arts, entertainment and recreation 1,666 196 99 — 1,961 (5) (6) (31) — (42)
– other services 7,065 972 318 — 8,355 (26) (37) (90) — (153)
– activities of households 684 10 — — 694 — — — — —
– extra-territorial organisations and
bodies activities 100 1 — — 101 — — — — —
– government 5,420 202 205 — 5,827 (2) — (10) — (12)
– asset-backed securities 19 13 — — 32 — (13) — — (13)
Non-bank financial institutions 69,972 3,650 810 — 74,432 (52) (30) (322) — (404)
Loans and advances to banks 111,479 1,436 2 — 112,917 (10) (3) (2) — (15)
At 31 Dec 2023 524,329 74,824 15,770 81 615,004 (561) (1,533) (6,098) (30) (8,222)
By legal entity
HSBC UK Bank plc 76,793 18,735 3,769 — 99,297 (213) (474) (593) — (1,280)
HSBC Bank plc 82,025 8,452 2,673 40 93,190 (69) (138) (1,035) (7) (1,249)
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking
Corporation Limited 287,876 37,402 7,077 38 332,393 (185) (696) (3,349) (21) (4,251)
HSBC Bank Middle East Limited 21,927 1,598 894 3 24,422 (17) (11) (571) (2) (601)
HSBC North America Holdings Inc. 30,797 5,712 583 — 37,092 (24) (145) (127) — (296)
Grupo Financiero HSBC, S.A. de C.V. 13,714 1,186 382 — 15,282 (39) (56) (231) — (326)
Other trading entities 11,164 1,739 392 — 13,295 (14) (13) (192) — (219)
Holding companies, shared service
centres and intra-Group eliminations 33 — — — 33 — — — — —
At 31 Dec 2023 524,329 74,824 15,770 81 615,004 (561) (1,533) (6,098) (30) (8,222)
Total wholesale lending for loans and other credit-related commitments and financial guarantees by stage distribution1 (continued)
Nominal amount Allowance for ECL
Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI Total Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Corporate and commercial 256,367 22,218 1,066 4 279,655 (126) (125) (107) — (358)
Financial 135,039 5,111 103 — 140,253 (11) (10) (2) — (23)
At 31 Dec 2023 391,406 27,329 1,169 4 419,908 (137) (135) (109) — (381)
By legal entity
HSBC UK Bank plc 31,982 5,760 350 — 38,092 (31) (32) (56) — (119)
HSBC Bank plc 148,980 9,466 310 4 158,760 (20) (27) (27) — (74)
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking
Corporation Limited 70,436 3,975 79 — 74,490 (59) (39) (16) — (114)
HSBC Bank Middle East Limited 6,944 323 56 — 7,323 (4) (1) (3) — (8)
HSBC North America Holdings Inc. 101,067 5,103 248 — 106,418 (14) (27) (1) — (42)
HSBC Bank Canada 28,156 2,461 66 — 30,683 (8) (8) (3) — (19)
Grupo Financiero HSBC, S.A. de C.V. 2,092 34 — — 2,126 (1) — — — (1)
Other trading entities 1,749 207 60 — 2,016 — (1) (3) — (4)
At 31 Dec 2023 391,406 27,329 1,169 4 419,908 (137) (135) (109) — (381)
1 Included in loans and other credit-related commitments and financial guarantees is $70bn relating to unsettled reverse repurchase agreements, which once
drawn are classified as ‘Reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading’.

[PAGE 175]

Wholesale lending – reconciliation of changes in gross carrying/nominal amount and allowances for loans and advances to banks and
customers including loan commitments and financial guarantees
(Audited)
Non-credit impaired Credit impaired
Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI Total
Gross Gross Gross Gross Gross
carrying/ carrying/ carrying/ carrying/ carrying/
nominal Allowanc nominal Allowanc nominal Allowanc nominal Allowanc nominal Allowanc
amount e for ECL amount e for ECL amount e for ECL amount e for ECL amount e for ECL
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
At 1 Jan 2024 845,982 (698) 102,129 (1,668) 16,939 (6,207) 85 (30) 965,135 (8,603)
Transfers of financial
instruments: (17,606) (214) 6,997 825 10,609 (611) — — — —
– transfers from stage 1 to
stage 2 (70,991) 173 70,991 (173) — — — — — —
– transfers from stage 2 to
stage 1 55,182 (380) (55,182) 380 — — — — — —
– transfers to stage 3 (2,056) 7 (9,515) 636 11,571 (643) — — — —
– transfers from stage 3 259 (14) 703 (18) (962) 32 — — — —
Net remeasurement of ECL
arising from transfer of stage — 214 — (226) — (12) — — — (24)
Net new and further lending/
repayments 58,044 (151) (29,842) 311 (4,450) 1,219 7 (7) 23,759 1,372
Change to risk parameters –
credit quality — 112 — (899) — (2,508) — (11) — (3,306)
Changes to models used for
ECL calculation — 39 — 105 — — — — — 144
Assets written off — — — — (2,925) 2,925 — — (2,925) 2,925
Credit-related modifications
that resulted in derecognition — — — — — — — — — —
Foreign exchange and
others1 2 3 (53,384) 53 (4,996) 36 4 (153) 1 (3) (58,375) (67)
At 31 Dec 2024 833,036 (645) 74,288 (1,516) 20,177 (5,347) 93 (51) 927,594 (7,559)
ECL income statement
change for the period 214 (709) (1,301) (18) (1,814)
Recoveries 40
Others (126)
Total ECL income statement
change for the period (1,900)
1 Total includes $2.9bn of gross carrying loans and advances to customers and banks, which were classified to assets held for sale during the year, and a
corresponding allowance for ECL of $23m, reflecting business disposals as disclosed in Note 23 ‘Assets held for sale and liabilities of disposal groups held for
sale’ on page 411.
2 Total includes $28.9bn of nominal amount and $20m of corresponding allowance for ECL related to derecognition of loan commitments and financial guarantees
following the sale of our banking business in Canada during 2024.
3 Total includes $0.3bn of nominal amount related to derecognition of loan commitments and financial guarantees following the sale of our banking business in
Argentina during 2024.
As shown in the above table, the allowance for ECL for loans and The ECL charge for the period of $1,814m presented in the previous
advances to customers and banks and relevant loan commitments table consisted of $3,306m relating to credit quality changes,
and financial guarantees decreased by $1,044m during the period including the credit quality impact of financial instruments transferring
from $8,603m at 31 December 2023 to $7,559m at 31 December between stages and $24m relating to the net remeasurement impact
2024. of stage transfers. This was partly offset by $1,372m relating to
underlying net book volume movement and $144m in changes to
This decrease was driven by:
models used for ECL calculation.
– $2,925m of assets written off;
During the period, there was a net transfer between stage 1 and
– $1,372m relating to volume movements, which included the stage 2 of $15,809m gross carrying/nominal amounts. It was primarily
allowance for ECL associated with new originations, assets driven by our entities in Asia ($12,878m), mainly due to deterioration
derecognised and further lending/repayments; and in the real estate and construction sectors, and in our main entity in
the US ($1,986m) and Mexico ($1,805m), partly offset by
– $144m relating to changes to models used for ECL calculation.
improvements in the economic outlook that led to upgrades to stage
These were partly offset by: 1 exposures, primarily in our legal entities in the UK($3,077m).
– $3,306m relating to credit quality changes, including the credit A summary of basis of preparation is available on page 161.
quality impact of financial instruments transferring between
stages;
– foreign exchange and other movements of $67m; and
– $24m relating to the net remeasurement impact of stage
transfers.
Risk
review

[PAGE 176]

Risk review
Wholesale lending – reconciliation of changes in gross carrying/nominal amount and allowances for loans and advances to banks and
customers including loan commitments and financial guarantees
(Audited)
Non-credit impaired Credit impaired
Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI Total
Gross Gross Gross Gross Gross
carrying/ carrying/ carrying/ carrying/ carrying/
nominal Allowance nominal Allowance nominal Allowance nominal Allowance nominal Allowance
amount for ECL amount for ECL amount for ECL amount for ECL amount for ECL
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
At 1 Jan 2023 830,322 (670) 124,660 (2,205) 17,068 (6,144) 129 (38) 972,179 (9,057)
Transfers of financial instruments: (16,804) (429) 10,247 1,141 6,557 (712) — — — —
– transfers from stage 1 to
stage 2 (93,511) 172 93,511 (172) — — — — — —
– transfers from stage 2 to
stage 1 77,772 (605) (77,772) 605 — — — — — —
– transfers to stage 3 (1,444) 20 (6,255) 765 7,699 (785) — — — —
– transfers from stage 3 379 (16) 763 (57) (1,142) 73 — — — —
Net remeasurement of ECL
arising from transfer of stage — 354 — (294) — (45) — — — 15
Net new and further lending/
repayments 43,282 (138) (32,082) 311 (3,787) 973 (36) 3 7,377 1,149
Changes to risk parameters –
credit quality — 203 — (621) — (2,941) — 21 — (3,338)
Changes to models used for ECL
calculation — (9) — 25 — — — — — 16
Assets written off — — — — (2,596) 2,596 (2,596) 2,596
Credit-related modifications that
resulted in derecognition — — — — (119) 95 — — (119) 95
Foreign exchange and others1 (10,818) (9) (696) (25) (184) (29) (8) (16) (11,706) (79)
At 31 Dec 2023 845,982 (698) 102,129 (1,668) 16,939 (6,207) 85 (30) 965,135 (8,603)
ECL income statement change
for the period 410 (579) (2,013) 24 (2,158)
Recoveries 42
Others — — — — — — — — — (203)
Total ECL income statement
change for the period (2,319)
1 Total includes $13.5bn of gross carrying loans and advances to customers and banks, which were classified to assets held for sale during the year, and a
corresponding allowance for ECL of $61m, reflecting business disposals as disclosed in Note 23 ‘Assets held for sale and liabilities of disposal groups held for
sale’ on page 411.
Wholesale lending – distribution of financial instruments to which the impairment requirements of IFRS 9 are applied by credit quality
Gross carrying amount
Sub- Credit Allowance
Strong Good Satisfactory standard impaired Total for ECL Net
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
By legal entity
HSBC UK Bank plc 21,548 30,317 36,450 6,087 3,356 97,758 (1,203) 96,555
HSBC Bank plc 42,189 21,755 24,150 2,771 2,352 93,217 (939) 92,278
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking
Corporation Limited 157,900 69,084 71,651 7,978 11,522 318,135 (3,874) 314,261
HSBC Bank Middle East Limited 15,854 4,263 6,927 266 852 28,162 (490) 27,672
HSBC North America Holdings Inc. 6,095 11,726 13,967 2,984 503 35,275 (293) 34,982
Grupo Financiero HSBC, S.A. de C.V. 1,476 5,523 5,974 687 230 13,890 (211) 13,679
Other trading entities 2,432 1,072 4,563 288 332 8,687 (194) 8,493
Holding companies, shared service centres and
intra-Group eliminations 76 — — — — 76 — 76
At 31 Dec 2024 247,570 143,740 163,682 21,061 19,147 595,200 (7,204) 587,996
Percentage of total credit quality (%) 41.6 24.2 27.5 3.5 3.2 100.0
By legal entity
HSBC UK Bank plc 20,777 30,245 36,206 8,300 3,769 99,297 (1,280) 98,017
HSBC Bank plc 41,149 20,962 24,164 4,202 2,713 93,190 (1,249) 91,941
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking
Corporation Limited 165,255 72,683 78,566 8,774 7,115 332,393 (4,251) 328,142
HSBC Bank Middle East Limited 13,660 3,082 6,270 513 897 24,422 (601) 23,821
HSBC North America Holdings Inc. 6,244 13,668 13,094 3,503 583 37,092 (296) 36,796
Grupo Financiero HSBC, S.A. de C.V. 1,853 6,543 5,882 622 382 15,282 (326) 14,956
Other trading entities 3,189 1,277 7,449 988 392 13,295 (219) 13,076
Holding companies, shared service centres and
intra-Group eliminations 33 — — — — 33 — 33
At 31 Dec 2023 252,160 148,460 171,631 26,902 15,851 615,004 (8,222) 606,782
Percentage of total credit quality (%) 41.0 24.1 27.9 4.4 2.6 100.0

[PAGE 177]

Our risk rating system facilitates the internal ratings-based approach under the Basel framework adopted by the Group to support calculation of
our minimum credit regulatory capital requirement. The credit quality classifications can be found on page 139.
Wholesale lending – credit risk profile by obligor grade for loans and advances at amortised cost
Gross carrying amount Allowance for ECL
Basel one-year ECL Mapped
PD range Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI Total Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI Total coverage external rating
% $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m %
Corporate
and
commercial 340,987 51,231 18,376 90 410,684 (463) (1,358) (4,883) (51) (6,755) 1.6
– CRR 1 0.000 to 0.053 32,564 121 — — 32,685 (3) (5) — — (8) — AA- and above
– CRR 2 0.054 to 0.169 79,350 2,469 — — 81,819 (25) (15) — — (40) — A+ to A-
– CRR 3 0.170 to 0.740 111,229 7,556 — — 118,785 (103) (72) — — (175) 0.1 BBB+ to BBB-
– CRR 4 0.741 to 1.927 73,050 12,591 — — 85,641 (144) (99) — — (243) 0.3 BB+ to BB-
– CRR 5 1.928 to 4.914 40,391 12,673 — — 53,064 (158) (159) — — (317) 0.6 BB- to B
– CRR 6 4.915 to 8.860 2,491 7,436 — — 9,927 (16) (190) — — (206) 2.1 B-
– CRR 7 8.861 to 15.000 1,370 3,735 — — 5,105 (7) (172) — — (179) 3.5 CCC+
– CRR 8 15.001 to 99.999 542 4,650 — — 5,192 (7) (646) — — (653) 12.6 CCC to C
– CRR 9/10 100.000 — — 18,376 90 18,466 — — (4,883) (51) (4,934) 26.7 D
Non-bank
financial
institutions 79,687 2,098 679 — 82,464 (45) (30) (361) — (436) 0.5
– CRR 1 0.000 to 0.053 19,516 191 — — 19,707 (1) (1) — — (2) — AA- and above
– CRR 2 0.054 to 0.169 20,572 166 — — 20,738 (5) — — — (5) — A+ to A-
– CRR 3 0.170 to 0.740 20,370 330 — — 20,700 (12) (3) — — (15) 0.1 BBB+ to BBB-
– CRR 4 0.741 to 1.927 12,987 502 — — 13,489 (16) (2) — — (18) 0.1 BB+ to BB-
– CRR 5 1.928 to 4.914 6,058 390 — — 6,448 (11) (6) — — (17) 0.3 BB- to B
– CRR 6 4.915 to 8.860 48 319 — — 367 — (8) — — (8) 2.2 B-
– CRR 7 8.861 to 15.000 63 79 — — 142 — (1) — — (1) 0.7 CCC+
– CRR 8 15.001 to 99.999 73 121 — — 194 — (9) — — (9) 4.6 CCC to C
– CRR 9/10 100.000 — — 679 — 679 — — (361) — (361) 53.2 D
Banks 101,852 198 2 — 102,052 (9) (2) (2) — (13) —
– CRR 1 0.000 to 0.053 79,213 53 — — 79,266 (3) — — — (3) — AA- and above
– CRR 2 0.054 to 0.169 13,315 40 — — 13,355 (2) — — — (2) — A+ to A-
– CRR 3 0.170 to 0.740 4,226 29 — — 4,255 (2) — — — (2) — BBB+ to BBB-
– CRR 4 0.741 to 1.927 3,275 12 — — 3,287 (1) — — — (1) — BB+ to BB-
– CRR 5 1.928 to 4.914 1,706 47 — — 1,753 (1) (1) — — (2) 0.1 BB- to B
– CRR 6 4.915 to 8.860 10 1 — — 11 — — — — — — B-
– CRR 7 8.861 to 15.000 107 13 — — 120 — — — — — — CCC+
– CRR 8 15.001 to 99.999 — 3 — — 3 — (1) — — (1) 33.3 CCC to C
– CRR 9/10 100.000 — — 2 — 2 — — (2) — (2) 100.0 D
At 31 Dec
2024 522,526 53,527 19,057 90 595,200 (517) (1,390) (5,246) (51) (7,204) 1.2
Risk
review

[PAGE 178]

Risk review
Wholesale lending – credit risk profile by obligor grade for loans and advances at amortised cost (continued)
Basel one-year Gross carrying amount Allowance for ECL ECL Mapped
PD range Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI Total Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI Total coverage external rating
% $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m %
Corporate and
commercial 342,878 69,738 14,958 81 427,655 (499) (1,500) (5,774) (30) (7,803) 1.8
– CRR 1 0.000 to 0.053 34,097 715 — — 34,812 (4) (3) — — (7) — AA- and above
– CRR 2 0.054 to 0.169 81,131 2,180 — — 83,311 (23) (14) — — (37) — A+ to A-
– CRR 3 0.170 to 0.740 112,322 11,391 — — 123,713 (106) (87) — — (193) 0.2 BBB+ to BBB-
– CRR 4 0.741 to 1.927 72,654 16,904 — — 89,558 (156) (130) — — (286) 0.3 BB+ to BB-
– CRR 5 1.928 to 4.914 37,631 18,060 — — 55,691 (169) (240) — — (409) 0.7 BB- to B
– CRR 6 4.915 to 8.860 2,675 7,341 — — 10,016 (24) (176) — — (200) 2.0 B-
– CRR 7 8.861 to 15.000 1,031 6,319 — — 7,350 (10) (246) — — (256) 3.5 CCC+
– CRR 81 15.001 to 99.999 1,337 6,828 — — 8,165 (7) (604) — — (611) 7.5 CCC to C
– CRR 9/10 100.000 — — 14,958 81 15,039 — — (5,774) (30) (5,804) 38.6 D
Non-bank financial
institutions 69,972 3,650 810 — 74,432 (52) (30) (322) — (404) 0.5
– CRR 1 0.000 to 0.053 15,475 211 — — 15,686 (2) — — — (2) — AA- and above
– CRR 2 0.054 to 0.169 16,920 374 — — 17,294 (6) (2) — — (8) — A+ to A-
– CRR 3 0.170 to 0.740 19,195 912 — — 20,107 (10) (4) — — (14) 0.1 BBB+ to BBB-
– CRR 4 0.741 to 1.927 11,480 1,032 — — 12,512 (19) (5) — — (24) 0.2 BB+ to BB-
– CRR 5 1.928 to 4.914 6,635 872 — — 7,507 (9) (15) — — (24) 0.3 BB- to B
– CRR 6 4.915 to 8.860 232 116 — — 348 (6) (1) — — (7) 2.0 B-
– CRR 7 8.861 to 15.000 25 93 — — 118 — (2) — — (2) 1.7 CCC+
– CRR 8 15.001 to 99.999 10 40 — — 50 — (1) — — (1) 2.0 CCC to C
– CRR 9/10 100.000 — — 810 — 810 — — (322) — (322) 39.8 D
Banks 111,479 1,436 2 — 112,917 (10) (3) (2) — (15) —
– CRR 1 0.000 to 0.053 89,112 10 — — 89,122 (4) — — — (4) — AA- and above
– CRR 2 0.054 to 0.169 11,899 36 — — 11,935 (2) — — — (2) — A+ to A-
– CRR 3 0.170 to 0.740 4,631 9 — — 4,640 (1) — — — (1) — BBB+ to BBB-
– CRR 4 0.741 to 1.927 2,488 58 — — 2,546 (1) — — — (1) — BB+ to BB-
– CRR 5 1.928 to 4.914 3,062 755 — — 3,817 (2) (1) — — (3) 0.1 BB- to B
– CRR 6 4.915 to 8.860 22 20 — — 42 — — — — — — B-
– CRR 7 8.861 to 15.000 1 — — — 1 — — — — — — CCC+
– CRR 8 15.001 to 99.999 264 548 — — 812 — (2) — — (2) 0.2 CCC to C
– CRR 9/10 100.000 — — 2 — 2 — — (2) — (2) 100.0 D
At 31 Dec 2023 524,329 74,824 15,770 81 615,004 (561) (1,533) (6,098) (30) (8,222) 1.3
1 Corporate and commercial lending reported in CRR 8 for stage 1 includes $782m related to the UK Bounce Back Loan Scheme with immaterial allowances for
ECL.
Wholesale lending – credit risk profile by obligor grade for loan and other credit-related commitments and financial guarantees
Nominal amount Allowance for ECL
Mapped
Basel one-year ECL external
PD range Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI Total Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI Total coverage rating
% $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m %
Loan and
other credit-
related
commitments 345,742 19,495 872 3 366,112 (120) (121) (85) — (326) 0.1
– CRR 1 0.000 to 0.053 92,090 89 — — 92,179 (3) — — — (3) — AA- and above
– CRR 2 0.054 to 0.169 92,967 1,009 — — 93,976 (12) (2) — — (14) — A+ to A-
– CRR 3 0.170 to 0.740 97,876 5,051 — — 102,927 (38) (15) — — (53) 0.1 BBB+ to BBB-
– CRR 4 0.741 to 1.927 40,135 4,349 — — 44,484 (28) (22) — — (50) 0.1 BB+ to BB-
– CRR 5 1.928 to 4.914 18,581 3,976 — — 22,557 (26) (22) — — (48) 0.2 BB- to B
– CRR 6 4.915 to 8.860 1,828 2,297 — — 4,125 (4) (22) — — (26) 0.6 B-
– CRR 7 8.861 to 15.000 1,378 678 — — 2,056 (1) (12) — — (13) 0.6 CCC+
– CRR 8 15.001 to 99.999 887 2,046 — — 2,933 (8) (26) — — (34) 1.2 CCC to C
– CRR 9/10 100.000 — — 872 3 875 — — (85) — (85) 9.7 D
Financial
guarantees 13,937 1,386 248 — 15,571 (8) (5) (16) — (29) 0.2
– CRR 1 0.000 to 0.053 1,895 1 — — 1,896 — — — — — — AA- and above
– CRR 2 0.054 to 0.169 4,326 12 — — 4,338 (1) — — — (1) — A+ to A-
– CRR 3 0.170 to 0.740 4,137 71 — — 4,208 (2) — — — (2) — BBB+ to BBB-
– CRR 4 0.741 to 1.927 2,106 286 — — 2,392 (3) — — — (3) 0.1 BB+ to BB-
– CRR 5 1.928 to 4.914 1,295 478 — — 1,773 (2) (1) — — (3) 0.2 BB- to B
– CRR 6 4.915 to 8.860 162 232 — — 394 — (1) — — (1) 0.3 B-
– CRR 7 8.861 to 15.000 5 128 — — 133 — (2) — — (2) 1.5 CCC+
– CRR 8 15.001 to 99.999 11 178 — — 189 — (1) — — (1) 0.5 CCC to C
– CRR 9/10 100.000 — — 248 — 248 — — (16) — (16) 6.5 D
At 31 Dec 2024 359,679 20,881 1,120 3 381,683 (128) (126) (101) — (355) 0.1

[PAGE 179]

Wholesale lending – credit risk profile by obligor grade for loan and other credit-related commitments and financial guarantees (continued)
Nominal amount Allowance for ECL
Basel one-year ECL Mapped
PD range Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI Total Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI Total coverage external rating
% $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m %
Loan and other
credit-related
commitments 377,766 25,463 785 4 404,018 (130) (128) (84) — (342) 0.1
– CRR 1 0.000 to 0.053 65,730 1,676 — — 67,406 (5) (1) — — (6) — AA- and above
– CRR 2 0.054 to 0.169 152,224 2,490 — — 154,714 (13) (6) — — (19) — A+ to A-
– CRR 3 0.170 to 0.740 105,569 6,044 — — 111,613 (46) (24) — — (70) 0.1 BBB+ to BBB-
– CRR 4 0.741 to 1.927 38,102 4,751 — — 42,853 (33) (20) — — (53) 0.1 BB+ to BB-
– CRR 5 1.928 to 4.914 14,054 5,367 — — 19,421 (28) (31) — — (59) 0.3 BB- to B
– CRR 6 4.915 to 8.860 1,170 2,453 — — 3,623 (4) (15) — — (19) 0.5 B-
– CRR 7 8.861 to 15.000 780 848 — — 1,628 (1) (10) — — (11) 0.7 CCC+
– CRR 8 15.001 to 99.999 137 1,834 — — 1,971 — (21) — — (21) 1.1 CCC to C
– CRR 9/10 100.000 — — 785 4 789 — — (84) — (84) 10.6 D
Financial
guarantees 13,640 1,866 384 — 15,890 (7) (7) (25) — (39) 0.2
– CRR 1 0.000 to 0.053 2,553 1 — — 2,554 — — — — — — AA- and above
– CRR 2 0.054 to 0.169 4,212 202 — — 4,414 (1) — — — (1) — A+ to A-
– CRR 3 0.170 to 0.740 3,584 202 — — 3,786 (2) — — — (2) 0.1 BBB+ to BBB-
– CRR 4 0.741 to 1.927 1,932 407 — — 2,339 (2) (1) — — (3) 0.1 BB+ to BB-
– CRR 5 1.928 to 4.914 1,266 455 — — 1,721 (2) (2) — — (4) 0.2 BB- to B
– CRR 6 4.915 to 8.860 91 387 — — 478 — (1) — — (1) 0.2 B-
– CRR 7 8.861 to 15.000 1 76 — — 77 — — — — — — CCC+
– CRR 8 15.001 to 99.999 1 136 — — 137 — (3) — — (3) 2.2 CCC to C
– CRR 9/10 100.000 — — 384 — 384 — — (25) — (25) 6.5 D
At 31 Dec 2023 391,406 27,329 1,169 4 419,908 (137) (135) (109) — (381) 0.1
Commercial real estate
Commercial real estate (‘CRE’) lending includes the financing of population growth. In less developed commercial real estate markets,
corporate, institutional and high net worth customers who are our exposures comprise lending for development assets on relatively
investing primarily in income-producing assets and, to a lesser extent, short tenors with a particular focus on supporting larger, better-
in their construction and development. The portfolio has larger capitalised developers involved in residential construction or assets
concentrations in Hong Kong, the UK and mainland China. supporting economic expansion.
Our global exposure is centred largely on cities with economic, Excluding favourable foreign exchange movements of $1.1bn,
political or cultural significance. In more developed markets, our commercial real estate lending decreased by $10.1bn, mainly from
exposure mainly comprises the financing of investment assets, the $6.4bn in our entities in Hong Kong due to loan repayments and write-
redevelopment of existing stock and the augmentation of both offs.
commercial and residential markets to support economic and
Commercial real estate lending to customers
of which:
The of which:
Hongkong Hong Kong
and HSBC excluding
HSBC Shanghai HSBC Bank North Grupo exposure to
UK HSBC Banking Middle America Financiero Other mainland
Bank Bank Corporation East Holdings HSBC, S.A. trading Hong China
plc plc Limited Limited Inc. de C.V. entities Total UK Kong borrowers
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Gross loans
and advances
Stage 1 9,394 3,285 34,337 1,136 1,420 380 42 49,994 9,758 22,643 22,132
Stage 2 4,052 313 9,103 — 1,184 67 1 14,720 4,112 7,619 6,515
Stage 3 492 213 6,451 117 240 22 23 7,558 492 5,967 4,554
POCI — 43 18 — — — — 61 43 18 —
At 31 Dec 2024 13,938 3,854 49,909 1,253 2,844 469 66 72,333 14,405 36,247 33,201
– of which:
forborne loans 502 54 3,087 116 273 19 23 4,074 545 2,729
Allowance for
ECL (203) (72) (1,627) (23) (103) (8) (19) (2,055) (227) (1,418) (405)
Risk
review

[PAGE 180]

Risk review
Commercial real estate lending to customers (continued)
of which:
The of which:
Hongkong HSBC Hong Kong
HSBC and Shanghai North Grupo excluding
UK HSBC Banking HSBC Bank America Financiero Other exposure to
Bank Bank Corporation Middle East Holdings HSBC, S.A. trading mainland China
plc plc Limited Limited Inc. de C.V. entities Total UK Hong Kong borrowers
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Gross loans and
advances
Stage 1 10,304 4,218 41,307 1,126 1,803 685 440 59,883 10,790 28,846 27,560
Stage 2 3,262 400 13,229 189 1,956 70 1 19,107 3,294 10,375 8,681
Stage 3 444 184 3,570 145 166 25 18 4,552 470 3,226 576
POCI — 32 15 — — — — 47 32 15 —
At 31 Dec 2023 14,010 4,834 58,121 1,460 3,925 780 459 83,589 14,586 42,462 36,817
– of which:
forborne loans 461 69 2,454 126 433 52 — 3,595 519 2,227
Allowance for
ECL (148) (49) (2,399) (55) (98) (15) (10) (2,774) (172) (2,149) (296)
Commercial real estate gross loans and advances to customers by global business
of which:
The Hongkong
and Shanghai HSBC Bank Grupo
Banking Middle HSBC North Financiero Other
HSBC UK HSBC Corporation East America HSBC, S.A. trading Hong
Bank plc Bank plc Limited Limited Holdings Inc. de C.V. entities Total UK Kong
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Wealth and
Personal
Banking1 325 273 37 — 2 — — 637 469 37
Commercial
Banking 13,613 2,757 33,551 695 2,842 469 66 53,993 13,640 24,473
Global Banking
and Markets — 824 16,183 558 — — — 17,565 296 11,599
Corporate
Centre — — 138 — — — — 138 — 138
At 31 Dec 2024 13,938 3,854 49,909 1,253 2,844 469 66 72,333 14,405 36,247
Wealth and
Personal
Banking1 409 377 66 — 2 — 423 1,277 409 66
Commercial
Banking 13,601 3,322 37,826 733 3,923 780 36 60,221 13,686 27,811
Global Banking
and Markets — 1,135 20,066 727 — — — 21,928 491 14,444
Corporate
Centre — — 163 — — — — 163 — 141
At 31 Dec 2023 14,010 4,834 58,121 1,460 3,925 780 459 83,589 14,586 42,462
1 Comprised exclusively by exposures in Global Private Banking.

[PAGE 181]

Commercial real estate gross loans and advances to customers by credit quality
of which:
The of which:
Hongkong Hong Kong
and HSBC excluding
HSBC Shanghai HSBC Bank North Grupo exposure to
UK HSBC Banking Middle America Financiero Other mainland
Bank Bank Corporation East Holdings HSBC, S.A. trading Hong China
plc plc Limited Limited Inc. de C.V. entities Total UK Kong borrowers
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Strong 4,663 739 9,106 137 — 18 42 14,705 4,875 4,522 4,484
Good 2,098 1,430 16,113 407 566 111 — 20,725 2,107 10,421 9,754
Satisfactory 5,770 1,312 13,556 592 1,423 283 — 22,936 5,948 10,850 10,716
Sub-standard 915 117 4,665 — 615 35 1 6,348 940 4,469 3,693
Credit impaired 492 256 6,469 117 240 22 23 7,619 535 5,985 4,554
At 31 Dec 2024 13,938 3,854 49,909 1,253 2,844 469 66 72,333 14,405 36,247 33,201
Strong 3,940 740 12,394 255 25 65 16 17,435 4,191 6,527 6,118
Good 2,555 2,054 17,777 246 781 130 18 23,561 2,592 12,004 11,262
Satisfactory 6,370 1,642 19,509 634 1,691 500 407 30,753 6,575 16,290 15,759
Sub-standard 701 182 4,856 180 1,262 60 — 7,241 726 4,400 3,102
Credit impaired 444 216 3,585 145 166 25 18 4,599 502 3,241 576
At 31 Dec 2023 14,010 4,834 58,121 1,460 3,925 780 459 83,589 14,586 42,462 36,817
The Hong Kong CRE portfolio (excluding exposure to mainland China assess and manage the risk in the portfolio, including through
borrowers) saw negative credit migration in 2024 as a result of higher portfolio reviews and stress testing. Vulnerable borrowers, including
interest rates, high inventory levels and weak demand. This was those with debt serviceability challenges and higher LTV levels, are
predominantly driven by a deterioration in the secured portfolio as subject to heightened monitoring and management.
borrowers sought payment deferrals to accommodate debt
Market conditions remain challenging, particularly for commercial
serviceability challenges.
property as a result of continued weakness in demand. The
Secured exposures account for 54% of the total portfolio performance of the residential market remains mixed, with some
(31 December 2023: 54%), with collateral values regularly updated in initial improvement in sentiment and transaction levels observed in
line with our existing practice. The trend of loan right-sizing and the fourth quarter of 2024, driven by a further easing of real estate
borrower deleveraging within the secured portfolio has supported regulatory policies in October and improved end-user affordability as
good collateral coverage levels that continue to provide headroom in prices and interest rates fell. Nevertheless, property price pressure is
the event of a further softening of property valuations. As at likely to persist in the near term and until economic conditions and
31 December 2024, the weighted average LTV: sentiment improve. Given the more uncertain interest rate outlook,
we expect broader market fundamentals to remain subdued and
– of performing exposures rated ‘sub-standard’ was 46%
challenges in this sector to continue.
(31 December 2023: 54%);
Refinance risk in commercial real estate
– of ‘credit impaired’ exposures was 58% (31 December 2023:
71%). This has driven relatively low levels of stage 3 allowance for Commercial real estate lending tends to require the repayment of a
ECL. The reduction in LTV reflects the significantly smaller 'credit significant proportion of the principal at maturity. Typically, a customer
impaired' portfolio at 31 December 2023. will arrange repayment through the acquisition of a new loan to settle
the existing debt. Refinance risk is the risk that a customer, being
The unsecured portfolio remained stable in size and quality, with
unable to repay the debt on maturity, fails to refinance it at
limited levels of default and close to 90% rated Strong or Good.
commercial terms. We monitor our commercial real estate portfolio
Unsecured exposures are typically granted to strong, listed Hong
closely, assessing indicators for signs of potential issues with
Kong CRE developers, which commonly are members of
refinancing.
conglomerate groups with diverse cashflows. We continue to closely
Maturity analysis commercial real estate gross loans and advances to customers
of which:
The Hongkong
and Shanghai Grupo
Banking HSBC Bank HSBC North Financiero Other
HSBC UK HSBC Corporation Middle East America HSBC, S.A. trading Hong
Bank plc Bank plc Limited Limited Holdings Inc. de C.V. entities Total UK Kong
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
< 1 year 3,488 846 22,244 455 1,084 111 20 28,248 3,826 18,204
1–2 years 3,303 876 11,213 162 603 142 6 16,305 3,373 7,196
2–5 years 6,634 1,600 14,079 447 1,145 143 40 24,088 6,685 9,254
> 5 years 513 532 2,373 189 12 73 — 3,692 521 1,593
At 31 Dec 2024 13,938 3,854 49,909 1,253 2,844 469 66 72,333 14,405 36,247
< 1 year 3,553 1,496 25,427 396 1,472 619 437 33,400 3,950 19,887
1–2 years 4,514 474 14,144 175 623 60 2 19,992 4,571 10,923
2–5 years 5,411 2,149 16,052 441 1,814 71 3 25,941 5,520 9,885
> 5 years 532 715 2,498 448 16 30 17 4,256 545 1,767
At 31 Dec 2023 14,010 4,834 58,121 1,460 3,925 780 459 83,589 14,586 42,462
Risk
review

[PAGE 182]

Risk review
The following table presents the Group’s exposure to borrowers the purchase or financing of a property which supports the overall
classified in the commercial real estate sector where the ultimate operations of the business. This provides a more comprehensive view
parent is based in mainland China, as well as all commercial real of our mainland China CRE exposures. The exposures at
estate exposures booked on mainland China balance sheets. In 31 December 2024 are split by country/territory and credit quality
addition to CRE as defined in our primary CRE disclosure above, this including allowances for ECL by stage.
table includes financing provided to a corporate or financial entity for
Mainland China commercial real estate
(Audited)
Hong Kong Mainland China Rest of the Group Total
$m $m $m $m
Loans and advances to customers1 3,161 3,694 303 7,158
Guarantees issued and others2 80 16 5 101
Total mainland China commercial real estate exposure at 31 Dec 2024 3,241 3,710 308 7,259
Distribution of mainland China commercial real estate exposure by
credit quality
Strong 118 1,817 109 2,044
Good 578 595 1 1,174
Satisfactory 196 899 49 1,144
Sub-standard 777 136 149 1,062
Credit impaired 1,572 263 — 1,835
At 31 Dec 2024 3,241 3,710 308 7,259
Allowance for ECL by credit quality
Strong — (4) — (4)
Good — (3) — (3)
Satisfactory — (13) — (13)
Sub-standard (261) (30) (17) (308)
Credit impaired (749) (81) — (830)
At 31 Dec 2024 (1,010) (131) (17) (1,158)
Allowance for ECL by stage distribution
Stage 1 — (9) — (9)
Stage 2 (261) (41) (17) (319)
Stage 3 (743) (81) — (824)
POCI (6) — — (6)
At 31 Dec 2024 (1,010) (131) (17) (1,158)
ECL coverage % 31.2 3.5 5.5 16.0
Loans and advances to customers1 6,033 4,917 839 11,789
Guarantees issued and others2 255 66 37 358
Total mainland China commercial real estate exposure at 31 Dec 2023 6,288 4,983 876 12,147
Distribution of mainland China commercial real estate exposure by
credit quality
Strong 781 1,723 6 2,510
Good 604 953 421 1,978
Satisfactory 679 1,704 261 2,644
Sub-standard 1,298 327 188 1,813
Credit impaired 2,926 276 — 3,202
At 31 Dec 2023 6,288 4,983 876 12,147
Allowance for ECL by credit quality
Strong — (3) — (3)
Good — (5) (1) (6)
Satisfactory (3) (27) — (30)
Sub-standard (66) (87) (16) (169)
Credit impaired (1,726) (125) — (1,851)
At 31 Dec 2023 (1,795) (247) (17) (2,059)
Allowance for ECL by stage distribution
Stage 1 — (10) — (10)
Stage 2 (69) (112) (17) (198)
Stage 3 (1,726) (125) — (1,851)
At 31 Dec 2023 (1,795) (247) (17) (2,059)
ECL coverage % 28.5 5.0 1.9 17.0
1 Amounts represent gross carrying amount.
2 Amounts represent nominal amount for guarantees and other contingent liabilities.

[PAGE 183]

(Unaudited) profiles and risk quality are monitored and managed proactively. This
process is key to the setting of risk appetite for these larger, more
The mainland China commercial real estate portfolio continues to face
complex, geographically distributed customer groups. While the
challenges as market fundamentals remain weak and refinancing risks
principal form of risk management continues to be at the point of
continue. The portfolio remains closely managed, with reductions in
exposure origination, through the lending decision-making process,
exposures driven by a combination of de-risking measures,
Global Banking also utilises loan sales and credit default swap (‘CDS’)
repayments by performing customers and write-offs in the ‘credit
hedges to manage concentrations and reduce risk.
impaired’ category.
These transactions are the responsibility of a dedicated Global
The portfolio of mainland China CRE loans booked in Hong Kong
Banking portfolio management team. Hedging activity is carried out
remains relatively higher risk, with allowances for ECL substantially
within agreed credit parameters, and is subject to market risk limits
against unsecured exposures. For secured exposures, allowances for
and a robust governance structure. Where applicable, CDSs are
ECL are minimal, reflecting the nature and value of the security held.
entered into directly with a central clearing house counterparty.
Approximately half of the performing exposure in the mainland China Otherwise, the Group’s exposure to CDS protection providers is
CRE portfolio booked in Hong Kong is lending to state-owned diversified among mainly banking counterparties with strong credit
enterprises and relatively strong privately-owned enterprises. This is ratings.
reflected in the relatively low allowances for ECL in this part of the
CDS mitigants are held at portfolio level and are not included in the
portfolio.
expected credit loss calculations. CDS mitigants are not reported in
Mainland China real estate market activity remains depressed with the following tables.
continued weakness in underlying buyer demand for housing. Various
Collateral on loans and advances
government stimulus measures were introduced in 2024 to underpin
market confidence. Despite some early signs of price stabilisation in Collateral held is analysed separately for commercial real estate and
certain cities, these measures have not yet triggered a meaningful for other corporate, commercial and financial (non-bank) lending. The
recovery in transaction levels. Financing conditions and liquidity for following tables include off-balance sheet loan commitments,
borrowers operating in the real estate sector therefore remains primarily undrawn credit lines.
constrained, particularly for privately-owned enterprises. A market
The collateral measured in the following tables consists of fixed first
recovery is likely to be protracted and contingent on further
charges on real estate, and charges over cash and marketable
government support.
financial instruments. The values in the tables represent the expected
The Group has additional exposures to mainland China commercial market value on an open market basis, actual values realised are a
real estate as a result of lending to multinational corporates booked function of market conditions. No adjustment has been made to the
outside of mainland China, which is not incorporated in the table collateral for any expected costs of recovery. Marketable securities
above. are measured at their fair value.
Other types of collateral, such as unsupported guarantees and floating
Collateral and other credit enhancements
charges over the assets of a customer’s business, are not measured
(Audited) in the following tables. While such mitigants have value, often
providing rights in insolvency, their assignable value is not sufficiently
Although collateral can be an important mitigant of credit risk, it is the
certain and they are therefore assigned no value for disclosure
Group’s practice to lend on the basis of the customer’s ability to meet
purposes.
their obligations out of cash flow resources rather than placing
primary reliance on collateral and other credit risk enhancements.
The LTV ratios presented are calculated by directly associating loans
Depending on the customer’s standing and the type of product,
and advances with the collateral that individually and uniquely
facilities may be provided without any collateral or other credit
supports each facility. When collateral assets are shared by multiple
enhancements. For other lending, a charge over collateral is obtained
loans and advances, whether specifically or, more generally, by way
and considered in determining the credit decision and pricing. In the
of an all monies charge, the collateral value is pro-rated across the
event of default, the Group may utilise the collateral as a source of
loans and advances protected by the collateral.
repayment.
For credit-impaired loans, the collateral values cannot be directly
Depending on its form, collateral can have a significant financial effect
compared with impairment allowances recognised. The LTV figures
in mitigating our exposure to credit risk. Where there is sufficient
use open market values with no adjustments, actual values realised
collateral, an expected credit loss is not recognised. This is the case
are a function of market conditions. Impairment allowances are
for reverse repurchase agreements and for certain loans and
calculated on a different basis, by considering other cash flows and
advances to customers where the loan to value (‘LTV’) is very low.
adjusting collateral values for costs of realising collateral as explained
further on page 359.
Mitigants may include a charge on borrowers’ specific assets, such as
real estate or financial instruments. Other credit risk mitigants include
Commercial real estate loans and advances
short positions in securities and financial assets held as part of linked
The value of commercial real estate collateral is determined by using
insurance/investment contracts where the risk is predominantly borne
a combination of external and internal valuations and physical
by the policyholder. Additionally, risk may be managed by employing
inspections. For commercial real estate, where the facility exceeds
other types of collateral and credit risk enhancements, such as
regulatory threshold requirements, Group policy requires an
second charges, other liens and unsupported guarantees. Guarantees
independent review of the valuation at least every three years, or
are normally taken from corporates and export credit agencies.
more frequently as the need arises.
Corporates would normally provide guarantees as part of a parent/
subsidiary relationship and span a number of credit grades. The export In Hong Kong, market practice is typically for lending to major
credit agencies will normally be investment grade. property companies to be either secured by guarantees or unsecured.
In Europe, facilities of a working capital nature are generally not
Certain credit mitigants are used strategically in portfolio management
secured by a first fixed charge, and are therefore disclosed as not
activities. While single name concentrations arise in portfolios
collateralised.
managed by Global Banking and Corporate Banking, it is only in Global
Banking that their size requires the use of portfolio level credit
mitigants. Across Global Banking, risk limits and utilisations, maturity
Risk
review

[PAGE 184]

Risk review
Wholesale lending – commercial real estate loans and advances to customers including loan commitments by level of collateral for key
countries/territories (by stage)
(Audited)
Gross carrying/nominal amount ECL coverage
Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI Total Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI Total
$m $m $m $m $m % % % % %
Not collateralised 36,168 4,709 1,704 — 42,581 0.1 9.0 47.5 — 3.0
Fully collateralised by LTV ratio 37,090 11,909 5,254 — 54,253 0.1 1.7 7.8 — 1.2
– less than 50% 20,522 5,154 2,413 — 28,089 0.1 1.7 5.7 — 0.9
– 51% to 75% 11,392 3,840 1,691 — 16,923 0.1 2.2 7.6 — 1.3
– 76% to 90% 2,554 2,277 767 — 5,598 0.1 0.9 12.5 — 2.1
– 91% to 100% 2,622 638 383 — 3,643 0.2 2.3 12.3 — 1.8
Partially collateralised (A): LTV > 100% 2,119 698 815 64 3,696 0.2 2.8 19.7 45.8 5.8
– collateral value on A 1,255 457 570 29 2,311
Total at 31 Dec 2024 75,377 17,316 7,773 64 100,530 0.1 3.8 17.7 45.8 2.1
of which: UK
Not collateralised 4,487 1,890 127 — 6,504 0.4 3.8 27.8 — 1.9
Fully collateralised by LTV ratio 9,139 3,194 305 — 12,638 0.2 1.1 8.2 — 0.6
– less than 50% 2,903 761 160 — 3,824 0.2 1.5 8.0 — 0.8
– 51% to 75% 4,202 1,693 69 — 5,964 0.2 1.2 12.0 — 0.6
– 76% to 90% 1,173 732 24 — 1,929 0.1 0.4 10.2 — 0.3
– 91% to 100% 861 8 52 — 921 0.1 7.7 2.7 — 0.3
Partially collateralised (B): LTV > 100% 503 565 119 46 1,233 0.2 2.9 21.1 48.6 5.3
– collateral value on B 296 350 69 26 741
Total UK at 31 Dec 2024 14,129 5,649 551 46 20,375 0.2 2.2 15.5 48.6 1.3
of which: Hong Kong
Not collateralised 16,380 2,312 1,404 — 20,096 — 14.3 47.9 — 5.0
Fully collateralised by LTV ratio 17,115 6,045 4,127 — 27,287 0.1 1.4 5.8 — 1.2
– less than 50% 12,935 3,589 2,102 — 18,626 0.1 1.3 3.8 — 0.7
– 51% to 75% 3,534 1,059 1,243 — 5,836 0.1 2.2 6.2 — 1.8
– 76% to 90% 336 1,050 654 — 2,040 0.1 1.1 11.8 — 4.4
– 91% to 100% 310 347 128 — 785 — 0.5 2.4 — 0.6
Partially collateralised (C): LTV > 100% 185 62 562 18 827 — 1.9 17.6 38.1 12.9
– collateral value on C 119 41 397 3 560
Total Hong Kong at 31 Dec 2024 33,680 8,419 6,093 18 48,210 — 4.9 16.6 38.1 3.0
Not collateralised 36,754 5,128 2,543 — 44,425 0.1 3.9 72.4 — 4.7
Fully collateralised by LTV ratio 46,212 15,177 1,963 — 63,352 0.1 2.5 12.0 — 1.0
– less than 50% 24,391 7,413 574 — 32,378 0.1 1.9 13.1 — 0.7
– 51% to 75% 16,086 5,240 657 — 21,983 0.1 3.1 9.3 — 1.1
– 76% to 90% 3,140 1,437 454 — 5,031 0.1 3.5 11.8 — 2.1
– 91% to 100% 2,595 1,087 278 — 3,960 0.2 2.3 16.6 — 1.9
Partially collateralised (A): LTV > 100% 7,075 1,487 156 50 8,768 0.1 1.8 30.2 14.5 1.0
– collateral value on A 4,004 1,061 115 26 5,206
Total at 31 Dec 2023 90,041 21,792 4,662 50 116,545 0.1 2.8 45.6 14.5 2.4
of which: UK
Not collateralised 4,644 1,288 97 — 6,029 0.4 2.0 12.4 — 0.9
Fully collateralised by LTV ratio 9,762 2,512 295 — 12,569 0.1 1.3 13.9 — 0.7
– less than 50% 3,514 507 51 — 4,072 0.1 1.9 21.6 — 0.6
– 51% to 75% 4,826 1,418 103 — 6,347 0.1 1.1 16.4 — 0.6
– 76% to 90% 749 292 80 — 1,121 0.1 1.3 14.9 — 1.5
– 91% to 100% 673 295 61 — 1,029 0.1 1.6 1.9 — 0.6
Partially collateralised (B): LTV > 100% 1,580 239 82 35 1,936 0.1 1.1 34.2 20.7 2.0
– collateral value on B 524 171 62 17 774
Total UK at 31 Dec 2023 15,986 4,039 474 35 20,534 0.2 1.5 17.1 20.7 0.9
of which: Hong Kong
Not collateralised 16,889 2,323 2,215 — 21,427 — 6.5 78.7 — 8.8
Fully collateralised by LTV ratio 20,783 8,447 989 — 30,219 — 2.1 5.0 — 0.8
– less than 50% 15,425 5,604 294 — 21,323 — 1.5 1.4 — 0.5
– 51% to 75% 4,102 2,140 312 — 6,554 0.1 3.8 2.1 — 1.4
– 76% to 90% 657 619 315 — 1,591 0.1 1.8 8.0 — 2.3
– 91% to 100% 599 84 68 — 751 — 0.1 20.5 — 1.9
Partially collateralised (C): LTV > 100% 1,770 616 52 15 2,453 — 0.8 24.5 — 0.7
– collateral value on C 1,569 535 39 8 2,151
Total Hong Kong at 31 Dec 2023 39,442 11,386 3,256 15 54,099 — 2.9 55.5 — 4.0

[PAGE 185]

Other corporate, commercial and financial (non-bank) loans and advances
Other corporate, commercial and financial (non-bank) loans are Collateral values are generally refreshed when an obligor’s general
analysed separately in the following table, which focuses on the credit performance deteriorates and we have to assess the likely
countries/territories containing the majority of our loans and advances performance of secondary sources of repayment should it prove
balances. For financing activities in other corporate and commercial necessary to rely on them.
lending, collateral value is not strongly correlated to principal
repayment performance.
Wholesale lending – other corporate, commercial and financial (non-bank) loans and advances including loan commitments by level
of collateral for key countries/territories (by stage)
(Audited)
Gross carrying/nominal amount ECL coverage
Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI Total Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI Total
$m $m $m $m $m % % % % %
Not collateralised 713,028 62,844 6,870 5 782,747 0.1 0.9 41.5 14.2 0.5
Fully collateralised by LTV ratio 87,488 11,992 3,394 21 102,895 0.1 2.0 8.0 98.1 0.6
– less than 50% 39,432 4,360 1,703 — 45,495 0.1 1.6 6.9 — 0.5
– 51% to 75% 20,169 4,643 778 21 25,611 0.1 2.8 12.0 98.1 1.0
– 76% to 90% 9,016 1,515 512 — 11,043 0.1 1.6 7.1 — 0.6
– 91% to 100% 18,871 1,474 401 — 20,746 — 0.8 6.3 — 0.2
Partially collateralised (A): LTV > 100% 51,536 5,772 2,411 3 59,722 0.1 0.8 34.3 7.0 1.5
– collateral value on A 22,800 2,519 1,162 1 26,482
Total at 31 Dec 2024 852,052 80,608 12,675 29 945,364 0.1 1.1 31.2 72.8 0.6
of which: UK
Not collateralised 134,075 10,822 2,661 4 147,562 0.1 2.5 32.4 — 0.9
Fully collateralised by LTV ratio 24,552 3,046 968 — 28,566 0.1 2.4 5.8 — 0.6
– less than 50% 9,183 1,288 473 — 10,944 0.1 2.2 2.8 — 0.5
– 51% to 75% 7,544 1,216 244 — 9,004 0.1 2.7 7.0 — 0.7
– 76% to 90% 2,942 367 129 — 3,438 0.1 2.3 15.3 — 0.9
– 91% to 100% 4,883 175 122 — 5,180 0.1 2.1 5.3 — 0.3
Partially collateralised (B): LTV > 100% 7,016 1,055 395 — 8,466 0.2 1.3 10.8 — 0.8
– collateral value on B 3,832 581 252 — 4,665
Total UK at 31 Dec 2024 165,643 14,923 4,024 4 184,594 0.1 2.4 23.9 — 0.8
of which: Hong Kong
Not collateralised 117,849 6,389 1,313 — 125,551 — 0.6 58.1 — 0.7
Fully collateralised by LTV ratio 28,291 5,866 1,877 21 36,055 0.1 2.1 5.3 98.1 0.7
– less than 50% 14,500 1,774 903 — 17,177 0.1 1.4 5.1 — 0.5
– 51% to 75% 7,331 2,766 449 21 10,567 0.1 3.0 8.3 98.1 1.4
– 76% to 90% 2,896 752 372 — 4,020 0.1 1.9 3.6 — 0.7
– 91% to 100% 3,564 574 153 — 4,291 — 0.3 1.7 — 0.1
Partially collateralised (C): LTV > 100% 17,125 1,535 1,048 — 19,708 — 0.4 46.8 — 2.6
– collateral value on C 6,741 627 639 — 8,007
Total Hong Kong at 31 Dec 2024 163,265 13,790 4,238 21 181,314 — 1.2 31.9 98.1 0.9
Not collateralised 672,142 76,261 7,702 8 756,113 0.1 0.9 40.0 6.8 0.6
Fully collateralised by LTV ratio 113,339 19,747 2,629 23 135,738 0.1 1.4 10.7 89.8 0.5
– less than 50% 42,953 7,069 1,168 — 51,190 0.1 1.5 11.8 — 0.5
– 51% to 75% 24,011 8,222 887 — 33,120 0.1 1.3 6.4 — 0.6
– 76% to 90% 10,194 2,531 421 23 13,169 0.1 1.6 10.3 90.6 0.9
– 91% to 100% 36,181 1,925 153 — 38,259 — 1.1 27.6 — 0.2
Partially collateralised (A): LTV > 100% 53,686 9,019 2,233 3 64,941 0.1 0.7 32.2 38.4 1.3
– collateral value on A 24,505 4,266 993 1 29,765
Total at 31 Dec 2023 839,167 105,027 12,564 34 956,792 0.1 1.0 32.5 67.1 0.6
of which: UK
Not collateralised 117,824 20,401 3,423 — 141,648 0.2 1.9 23.2 — 1.0
Fully collateralised by LTV ratio 22,217 5,912 1,162 — 29,291 0.1 1.7 3.7 — 0.6
– less than 50% 7,385 2,340 601 — 10,326 0.1 1.2 1.3 — 0.5
– 51% to 75% 6,966 2,292 434 — 9,692 0.1 1.7 3.6 — 0.7
– 76% to 90% 2,256 809 106 — 3,171 0.2 2.5 15.8 — 1.3
– 91% to 100% 5,610 471 21 — 6,102 0.1 2.1 14.5 — 0.3
Partially collateralised (B): LTV > 100% 6,335 1,732 299 — 8,366 0.2 1.8 18.4 — 1.2
– collateral value on B 3,508 1,080 175 — 4,763
Total UK at 31 Dec 2023 146,376 28,045 4,884 — 179,305 0.2 1.8 18.3 — 0.9
of which: Hong Kong
Not collateralised 114,025 7,523 906 — 122,454 — 0.4 57.5 — 0.5
Fully collateralised by LTV ratio 32,857 8,918 877 22 42,674 0.1 1.3 6.6 94.7 0.5
– less than 50% 16,175 2,898 230 — 19,303 0.1 1.4 11.8 — 0.4
– 51% to 75% 9,461 4,515 336 — 14,312 0.1 1.2 3.1 — 0.5
– 76% to 90% 4,245 863 253 22 5,383 0.1 1.8 2.0 94.7 0.9
– 91% to 100% 2,976 642 58 — 3,676 — 0.4 27.0 — 0.5
Partially collateralised (C): LTV > 100% 16,152 2,887 704 — 19,743 — 0.6 30.2 — 1.2
– collateral value on C 6,619 1,306 318 — 8,243
Total Hong Kong at 31 Dec 2023 163,034 19,328 2,487 22 184,871 0.1 0.8 31.8 94.7 0.6
Risk
review

[PAGE 186]

Risk review
Other credit risk exposures
In addition to collateralised lending, other credit enhancements are The Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk includes financial
employed and methods used to mitigate credit risk arising from guarantees and similar contracts granted, as well as loan and other
financial assets. These are summarised below: credit-related commitments. Depending on the terms of the
arrangement, we may use additional credit mitigation if a guarantee is
– Some securities issued by governments, banks and other financial
called upon or a loan commitment is drawn and subsequently
institutions benefit from additional credit enhancements provided
defaults.
by government guarantees that cover the assets.
For further information on these arrangements, see Note 32 on the financial
– Debt securities issued by banks and financial institutions include
statements.
asset-backed securities (‘ABSs’) and similar instruments, which
are supported by underlying pools of financial assets. Credit risk Derivatives
associated with ABSs is reduced through the purchase of credit
default swap (‘CDS’) protection. We participate in transactions exposing us to counterparty credit risk.
Counterparty credit risk is the risk of financial loss if the counterparty
– Trading loans and advances mainly consist of reverse repos and
to a transaction defaults before satisfactorily settling it. It arises
stock borrowing, which are by their nature collateralised.
principally from over-the-counter (‘OTC’) derivatives and securities
– Cash collateral is posted to satisfy margin requirements. There is financing transactions and is calculated in both the trading and non-
limited credit risk on cash collateral posted since in the event of trading books. Transactions vary in value by reference to a market
default of the counterparty this would be set off against the factor such as an interest rate, exchange rate or asset price.
related liability.
The counterparty risk from derivative transactions is taken into
Collateral accepted as security that the Group is permitted to sell or account when reporting the fair value of derivative positions. The
repledge under these arrangements is described on page 400 of the
adjustment to the fair value is known as the credit valuation
financial statements.
adjustment (‘CVA’).
For an analysis of CVAs, see Note 12 on the financial statements.
The following table reflects by risk type the fair values and gross notional contract amounts of derivatives cleared through an exchange, central
counterparty or non-central counterparty.
Notional contract amounts and fair values of derivatives
2024 2023
Notional Fair value Notional Fair value
amount Assets Liabilities amount Assets Liabilities
$m $m $m $m $m $m
Total OTC derivatives 29,273,397 368,938 367,759 24,551,539 337,066 343,098
– total OTC derivatives cleared by central counterparties 13,484,581 111,974 113,091 11,130,785 116,520 118,796
– total OTC derivatives not cleared by central counterparties 15,788,816 256,964 254,668 13,420,754 220,546 224,302
Total exchange traded derivatives 1,267,685 12,445 9,435 1,111,247 9,134 8,159
Gross 30,541,082 381,383 377,194 25,662,786 346,200 351,258
Offset (112,746) (112,746) (116,486) (116,486)
At 31 Dec 268,637 264,448 229,714 234,772
The purposes for which HSBC uses derivatives are described in Note 15 on Personal lending
the financial statements.
The International Swaps and Derivatives Association (‘ISDA’) master This section presents further disclosures related to personal lending.
agreement is our preferred agreement for documenting derivatives It provides details of the main legal entities, countries and products
activity. It is common, and our preferred practice, for the parties that are driving the change observed in personal gross loans and
involved in a derivative transaction to execute a credit support annex advances to customers, with the impact of foreign exchange
(‘CSA’) in conjunction with the ISDA master agreement. Under a CSA, separately identified. Additionally, Hong Kong and UK mortgage book
collateral is passed between the parties to mitigate the counterparty loan to value (‘LTV’) data is provided.
risk inherent in outstanding positions. The majority of our CSAs are
with financial institutional clients. This section also provides reconciliations of the opening
1 January 2024 to 31 December 2024 closing gross carrying/nominal
We manage the counterparty exposure on our OTC derivative amounts and associated allowance for ECL by product. Further
contracts by using collateral agreements with counterparties and product granularity is also provided by stage, with data for our main
netting agreements. Currently, we do not actively manage our general legal entities presented for gross loans and advances to customers,
OTC derivative counterparty exposure in the credit markets, although loan and other credit-related commitments and financial guarantees.
we may manage individual exposures in certain circumstances.
At 31 December 2024, total personal lending for gross loans and
We place strict policy restrictions on collateral types and as a advances to customers of $447.2bn decreased by $0.3bn on a
consequence the types of collateral received and pledged are, by reported basis, compared with 31 December 2023. This decrease
value, highly liquid and of a strong quality, being predominantly cash. included adverse foreign exchange movements of $9.9bn. On a
constant currency basis, the increase of $9.6bn was driven by growth
Where a collateral type is required to be approved outside the
in mortgages (up $7.5bn) and other personal lending (up $2.1bn).
collateral policy, approval is required from a committee of senior
representatives from Markets, Legal and Risk. On a constant currency basis, mortgage lending gross balances
increased by $7.5bn to $361.3bn at 31 December 2024. Mortgages
See Note 31 on the financial statements for details regarding legally
grew in our main legal entities in the UK (up $4.5bn), in the US (up
enforceable right of offset in the event of counterparty default and collateral
received in respect of derivatives. $2.7bn), Australia (up $1.3bn) and Mexico (up $0.3bn). These
increases were partly offset by a $1.2bn decrease in China, mainly
due to loan repayments.

[PAGE 187]

On a constant currency basis, other personal lending balances at 31 December 2023. This decrease included favourable foreign
31 December 2024 increased by $2.1bn compared with 31 December exchange movements of $0.2bn.
2023. This included an increase in our entities in Europe (up $1.1bn),
On a constant currency basis, the allowance for ECL attributable to
in our entities in Asia (up $1.0bn) and in Mexico (up $0.3bn). This was
other personal lending of $2.1bn decreased by $0.1bn compared with
partly offset by the sale of our business in Argentina (down $0.3bn).
31 December 2023. This net release was driven by resilient
Total personal lending gross carrying amounts in stage 2 decreased performance and a reduction in credit judgements in the UK. The
by $7.6bn compared with 31 December 2023. Excluding adverse allowance for ECL attributable to mortgages of $0.5bn remained
foreign exchange movements of $1.1bn, the decrease of $6.5bn was unchanged compared with 31 December 2023.
driven by a reduction in credit judgements, primarily in the UK.
The quality of both our Hong Kong and UK mortgage books remained
At 31 December 2024, the write-offs attributable to personal lending strong, with low levels of impairment allowances. The average LTV
increased by $0.2bn to $1.5bn, compared with 31 December 2023. ratio on new mortgage lending in Hong Kong was 67%, compared
with an estimated 63% for the overall mortgage portfolio. The
At 31 December 2024, the allowance for ECL attributable to personal
average LTV ratio on new lending in the UK was 69%, compared with
lending, excluding off-balance sheet loan commitments and
an estimated 53% for the overall mortgage portfolio.
guarantees, decreased by $0.3bn to $2.5bn, compared with
Total personal lending for loans and advances to customers at amortised cost by stage distribution
Gross carrying amount Allowance for ECL
Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
By portfolio
First lien residential mortgages 324,703 34,177 2,450 361,330 (59) (130) (284) (473)
– of which: interest-only (including offset) 21,155 2,457 103 23,715 (3) (10) (17) (30)
– affordability (including US adjustable rate
mortgages) 16,628 386 243 17,257 (2) (2) (7) (11)
Other personal lending 79,043 5,742 1,110 85,895 (511) (1,028) (512) (2,051)
– second lien residential mortgages 366 10 19 395 — — (2) (2)
– guaranteed loans in respect of residential property 6,492 186 20 6,698 (2) (2) (5) (9)
– other personal lending which is secured 30,564 478 138 31,180 (12) (4) (15) (31)
– credit cards 21,611 2,991 313 24,915 (268) (660) (199) (1,127)
– other personal lending which is unsecured 18,198 1,864 598 20,660 (214) (345) (279) (838)
– motor vehicle finance 1,812 213 22 2,047 (15) (17) (12) (44)
At 31 Dec 2024 403,746 39,919 3,560 447,225 (570) (1,158) (796) (2,524)
By legal entity
HSBC UK Bank plc 152,338 31,325 1,075 184,738 (148) (307) (211) (666)
HSBC Bank plc1 23,501 1,198 324 25,023 (17) (24) (99) (140)
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation
Limited 191,614 5,519 1,170 198,303 (174) (385) (164) (723)
HSBC Bank Middle East Limited 3,678 158 40 3,876 (14) (29) (30) (73)
HSBC North America Holdings Inc. 20,851 497 327 21,675 (4) (12) (11) (27)
Grupo Financiero HSBC, S.A. de C.V. 11,016 1,172 620 12,808 (207) (400) (279) (886)
Other trading entities1 748 50 4 802 (6) (1) (2) (9)
At 31 Dec 2024 403,746 39,919 3,560 447,225 (570) (1,158) (796) (2,524)
1 At 31 December 2023, ‘Other trading entities’ included gross carrying amount of $9,079m and allowances for ECL of $23m related to Private Banking entities
that were reclassified to HSBC Bank plc to continue the process of simplifying our structure.
Total personal lending for loans and other credit-related commitments and financial guarantees by stage distribution
Nominal amount Allowance for ECL
Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
HSBC UK Bank plc 51,078 442 47 51,567 (6) — (3) (9)
HSBC Bank plc 1,605 7 2 1,614 — — — —
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation
Limited 189,737 1,165 35 190,937 (4) — (2) (6)
HSBC Bank Middle East Limited 2,452 7 — 2,459 — — — —
HSBC North America Holdings Inc. 3,707 68 2 3,777 — — — —
HSBC Bank Canada — — — — — — — —
Grupo Financiero HSBC, S.A. de C.V. 3,892 — — 3,892 (7) — — (7)
Other trading entities 434 2 — 436 — — — —
At 31 Dec 2024 252,905 1,691 86 254,682 (17) — (5) (22)
Risk
review

[PAGE 188]

Risk review
Total personal lending for loans and advances to customers at amortised cost by stage distribution (continued)
Gross carrying amount Allowance for ECL
Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
By portfolio
First lien residential mortgages 320,410 38,287 2,212 360,909 (102) (200) (269) (571)
– of which: interest-only (including offset) 21,895 2,923 139 24,957 (4) (27) (31) (62)
– affordability (including US adjustable rate
mortgages) 14,380 381 291 15,052 (3) (1) (10) (14)
Other personal lending 76,124 9,196 1,293 86,613 (477) (1,234) (585) (2,296)
– second lien residential mortgages 317 58 21 396 — (3) (5) (8)
– guaranteed loans in respect of residential property 8,001 502 90 8,593 (1) (5) (14) (20)
– other personal lending which is secured 28,900 424 157 29,481 (13) (5) (24) (42)
– credit cards 19,909 4,419 352 24,680 (236) (697) (203) (1,136)
– other personal lending which is unsecured 17,010 3,582 659 21,251 (212) (505) (331) (1,048)
– motor vehicle finance 1,987 211 14 2,212 (15) (19) (8) (42)
At 31 Dec 2023 396,534 47,483 3,505 447,522 (579) (1,434) (854) (2,867)
By legal entity
HSBC UK Bank plc 146,354 35,190 1,218 182,762 (152) (490) (255) (897)
HSBC Bank plc 14,598 1,747 273 16,618 (24) (22) (91) (137)
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation
Limited 191,382 7,741 948 200,071 (165) (402) (162) (729)
HSBC Bank Middle East Limited 3,335 397 47 3,779 (19) (33) (36) (88)
HSBC North America Holdings Inc. 18,096 553 364 19,013 (5) (14) (16) (35)
Grupo Financiero HSBC, S.A. de C.V. 12,717 1,740 536 14,993 (197) (463) (273) (933)
Other trading entities 10,052 115 119 10,286 (17) (10) (21) (48)
At 31 Dec 2023 396,534 47,483 3,505 447,522 (579) (1,434) (854) (2,867)
Total personal lending for loans and other credit-related commitments and financial guarantees by stage distribution (continued)
Nominal amount Allowance for ECL
Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
HSBC UK Bank plc 52,093 734 88 52,915 (11) — (2) (13)
HSBC Bank plc 1,630 36 4 1,670 — — — —
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation
Limited 181,967 2,479 223 184,669 (3) — — (3)
HSBC Bank Middle East Limited 1,978 7 1 1,986 — — — —
HSBC North America Holdings Inc. 3,695 72 8 3,775 — — — —
HSBC Bank Canada 6,610 113 30 6,753 — — — —
Grupo Financiero HSBC, S.A. de C.V. 4,308 — — 4,308 (8) — — (8)
Other trading entities 2,008 31 1 2,040 (1) — — (1)
At 31 Dec 2023 254,289 3,472 355 258,116 (23) — (2) (25)
Exposure to UK interest-only mortgage loans
The following information is presented for HSBC branded interest- Of the interest-only mortgage loans that expired in 2022, 82% were
only mortgage loans. This excludes offset mortgages in first direct repaid within 12 months of expiry with a total of 97% being repaid
and private banking mortgages. within 24 months of expiry. For those expired during 2023, 83% were
repaid within 12 months of expiry.
At the end of 2024, the average LTV ratio of the interest-only
mortgage loans was 44% (2023: 44%), and 99% (2023: 97%) had an At 31 December 2024, interest-only mortgage loan exposures were
LTV ratio of 75% or less. $15.2bn (2023: $15.2bn) and the maturity profile was as follows:
UK interest-only mortgage loans
$m
Expired interest-only mortgage loans 128
Interest-only mortgage loans by maturity
– 2025 165
– 2026 247
– 2027 366
– 2028 515
– 2029–2033 2,728
– post-2033 11,100
At 31 Dec 2024 15,249

[PAGE 189]

UK interest-only mortgage loans (continued)
$m
Expired interest-only mortgage loans 141
Interest-only mortgage loans by maturity
– 2024 141
– 2025 242
– 2026 315
– 2027 436
– 2028–2032 2,919
– post-2032 11,010
At 31 Dec 2023 15,204
Exposure to offset mortgage in first direct
The offset mortgage in first direct is no longer on sale and is only available for existing offset mortgage customers. It works by grouping
together the customer’s mortgage, savings and current accounts to offset their credit and debit balances against their mortgage exposure. At
31 December 2024, exposures were worth a total $4.1bn with an average LTV ratio of 28% (2023: $5.0bn exposure and 29% LTV ratio).
Reconciliations of changes in personal lending gross carrying/nominal amount
and allowances for loans and advances to customers including loan
commitments and financial guarantees
The following disclosure provides a reconciliation by stage of the Group’s personal lending gross carrying/nominal amount and allowances for
loans and advances to customers, including loan commitments and financial guarantees.
In addition, three reconciliations by stage of the Group’s gross carrying/nominal amount and allowances for first lien mortgages, credit cards and
other personal lending, including loan commitments and financial guarantees, have been included following the adoption of the
recommendations of the DECL Taskforce’s third report since 2023.
Personal lending – reconciliation of changes in gross carrying/nominal amount and allowances for loans and advances to customers
including loan commitments and financial guarantees
(Audited)
Non-credit impaired Credit impaired
Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total
Gross Gross Gross Gross
carrying/ carrying/ carrying/ carrying/
nominal Allowance nominal Allowance nominal Allowance nominal Allowance
amount for ECL amount for ECL amount for ECL amount for ECL
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
At 1 Jan 2024 650,823 (602) 50,955 (1,434) 3,860 (856) 705,638 (2,892)
Transfers of financial instruments: (2,023) (1,045) (345) 1,477 2,368 (432) — —
– transfers from stage 1 to stage 2 (45,220) 246 45,220 (246) — — — —
– transfers from stage 2 to stage 1 43,549 (1,247) (43,549) 1,247 — — — —
– transfers to stage 3 (743) 9 (2,715) 685 3,458 (694) — —
– transfers from stage 3 391 (53) 699 (209) (1,090) 262 — —
Net remeasurement of ECL arising from transfer
of stage — 745 — (605) — (132) — 8
Changes due to modifications not derecognised — — — — (25) — (25) —
Net new and further lending/repayments 29,789 (17) (7,889) 278 (796) 470 21,104 731
Change to risk parameters – credit quality — 251 — (874) — (1,437) — (2,060)
Changes to models used for ECL calculation — 29 — (109) — (20) — (100)
Assets written off — — — — (1,534) 1,534 (1,534) 1,534
Foreign exchange and others1,2,3 (21,938) 52 (1,111) 109 (227) 72 (23,276) 233
At 31 Dec 2024 656,651 (587) 41,610 (1,158) 3,646 (801) 701,907 (2,546)
ECL income statement change for the period 1,008 (1,310) (1,119) (1,421)
Recoveries 220
Others (32)
Total ECL income statement change for the
period (1,233)
1 Total includes $0.8bn of gross carrying loans and advances to customers, which were classified to assets held for sale, and a corresponding allowance for ECL of
$23m, reflecting business disposals, as disclosed in Note 23 ‘Assets held for sale and liabilities of disposal groups held for sale’ on page 411.
2 Total includes $6.4bn of nominal amount and $1m of corresponding allowance for ECL related to derecognition of loan commitments and financial guarantees
following the sale of our banking business in Canada during 2024.
3 Total includes $2.4bn of nominal amount related to derecognition of loan commitments and financial guarantees following the sale of our banking business in
Argentina during 2024.
As shown in the above table, the allowance for ECL for loans and advances to customers and relevant loan commitments and financial
guarantees decreased by $346m during the period from $2,892m at 31 December 2023 to $2,546m at 31 December 2024.
Risk
review

[PAGE 190]

Risk review
This decrease was driven by: The ECL charge for the period of $1,421m presented in the above
– $1,534m of assets written off; table consisted of $2,060m relating to credit quality changes,
including the credit quality impact of financial instruments transferring
– $731m relating to volume movements, which included the between stages, and $100m relating to changes to models used for
allowance for ECL associated with new originations, assets the calculation of ECL. This was partly offset by $731m relating to
derecognised and further lending/repayment; underlying net book volume movements and $8m relating to the net
– foreign exchange and other movements of $233m; and remeasurement impact of stage transfer.
– $8m relating to the net remeasurement impact of stage transfers.
During the period, there was a net transfer between stage 1 and
These were partly offset by: stage 2 of $1,671m gross carrying/nominal amounts. This increase
was mainly driven by HSBC UK ($3,410m) due to mortgages portfolio
– $2,060m relating to credit quality changes, including the credit
and Mexico ($860m) due to a slight deterioration in unsecured lending
quality impact of financial instruments transferring between
portfolio, partly offset by Hong Kong ($2,983m) due to improvement
stages; and
in credit cards and other unsecured lending portfolio.
– $100m of changes to models used for ECL calculation.
A summary of basis of preparation is available on page 161.
Personal lending – reconciliation of changes in gross carrying/nominal amount and allowances for loans and advances to customers
including loan commitments and financial guarantees
(Audited)
Non-credit impaired Credit impaired
Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total
Gross Gross Gross Gross
carrying/ carrying/ carrying/ carrying/
nominal Allowance nominal Allowance nominal Allowance nominal Allowance
amount for ECL amount for ECL amount for ECL amount for ECL
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
At 1 Jan 2023 603,321 (587) 52,563 (1,505) 4,139 (805) 660,023 (2,897)
Transfers of financial instruments: (2,144) (619) 39 1,087 2,105 (468) — —
– transfers from stage 1 to stage 2 (57,217) 270 57,217 (270) — — — —
– transfers from stage 2 to stage 1 55,307 (862) (55,307) 862 — — — —
– transfers to stage 3 (542) 3 (2,345) 614 2,887 (617) — —
– transfers from stage 3 308 (30) 474 (119) (782) 149 — —
Net remeasurement of ECL arising from transfer of
stage — 563 — (679) — (79) — (195)
Net new and further lending/repayments 34,411 (47) (4,713) 350 (1,169) 144 28,529 447
Change to risk parameters – credit quality — 104 — (641) — (955) — (1,492)
Changes to models used for ECL calculation — (13) — 21 — 7 — 15
Assets written off — — — — (1,326) 1,326 (1,326) 1,326
Foreign exchange and others1,2 15,235 (3) 3,066 (67) 111 (26) 18,412 (96)
At 31 Dec 2023 650,823 (602) 50,955 (1,434) 3,860 (856) 705,638 (2,892)
ECL income statement change for the period 607 (949) (883) (1,225)
Recoveries 226
Others 8
Total ECL income statement change for the period (991)
1 Total includes $7.8bn of gross carrying loans and advances and a corresponding allowance for ECL of $11m, due to the retention of certain balances previously
classified as assets held for sale of our retail banking operations in France. For further details, see Note 23 ‘Assets held for sale and liabilities of disposal groups
held for sale’ on page 411.
2 Total includes $2.0bn of gross carrying loans and advances to customers, which were classified to assets held for sale, and a corresponding allowance for ECL of
$20m, reflecting business disposals, as disclosed in Note 23 ‘Assets held for sale and liabilities of disposal groups held for sale’ on page 411.

[PAGE 191]

First lien residential mortgages – reconciliation of changes in gross carrying/nominal amount and allowances for loans and advances to
customers including loan commitments and financial guarantees
Non-credit impaired Credit impaired
Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total
Gross Gross Gross Gross
carrying/ carrying/ carrying/ carrying/
nominal Allowance nominal Allowance nominal Allowance nominal Allowance
amount for ECL amount for ECL amount for ECL amount for ECL
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
At 1 Jan 2024 340,764 (109) 38,513 (202) 2,258 (264) 381,535 (575)
Transfers of financial instruments: (3,561) (232) 2,694 232 867 — — —
– transfers from stage 1 to stage 2 (33,524) 23 33,524 (23) — — — —
– transfers from stage 2 to stage 1 30,113 (244) (30,113) 244 — — — —
– transfers to stage 3 (290) 6 (1,127) 90 1,417 (96) — —
– transfers from stage 3 140 (17) 410 (79) (550) 96 — —
Net remeasurement of ECL arising from transfer of
stage — 163 — (152) — (30) — (19)
Changes due to modifications not derecognised — — — — — — — —
Net new and further lending/repayments 14,008 20 (6,336) 26 (523) 33 7,149 79
Change to risk parameters – credit quality — 115 — (73) — (103) — (61)
Changes to models used for ECL calculation — (8) — 29 — 1 — 22
Assets written off — — — — (63) 63 (63) 63
Foreign exchange and others (6,535) (7) (530) 10 (65) 15 (7,130) 18
At 31 Dec 2024 344,676 (58) 34,341 (130) 2,474 (285) 381,491 (473)
ECL income statement change for the period 290 (170) (99) 21
Recoveries 7
Others (1)
Total ECL income statement change for the
period 27
At 1 Jan 2023 317,666 (74) 40,048 (231) 2,230 (270) 359,944 (575)
Transfers of financial instruments: (1,182) (109) 421 138 761 (29) — —
– transfers from stage 1 to stage 2 (41,207) 28 41,207 (28) — — — —
– transfers from stage 2 to stage 1 40,164 (117) (40,164) 117 — — — —
– transfers to stage 3 (354) 1 (958) 100 1,312 (101) — —
– transfers from stage 3 215 (21) 336 (51) (551) 72 — —
Net remeasurement of ECL arising from transfer of
stage — 72 — (79) — (67) — (74)
Net new and further lending/repayments 15,447 (3) (3,939) 22 (751) 322 10,757 341
Change to risk parameters – credit quality — 16 — (67) — (269) — (320)
Changes to models used for ECL calculation — (2) — 28 — — — 26
Assets written off — — — — (53) 53 (53) 53
Foreign exchange and others 8,833 (9) 1,983 (13) 71 (4) 10,887 (26)
At 31 Dec 2023 340,764 (109) 38,513 (202) 2,258 (264) 381,535 (575)
ECL income statement change for the period 83 (96) (14) (27)
Recoveries 10
Others 13
Total ECL income statement change for the period (4)
Risk
review

[PAGE 192]

Risk review
Credit cards – reconciliation of changes in gross carrying/nominal amount and allowances for loans and advances to customers including loan
commitments
Non-credit impaired Credit impaired
Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total
Gross Gross Gross Gross
carrying/ carrying/ carrying/ carrying/
nominal Allowance nominal Allowance nominal Allowance nominal Allowance
amount for ECL amount for ECL amount for ECL amount for ECL
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
At 1 Jan 2024 153,292 (253) 6,547 (698) 450 (144) 160,289 (1,095)
Transfers of financial instruments: 796 (453) (1,469) 717 673 (264) — —
– transfers from stage 1 to stage 2 (6,427) 129 6,427 (129) — — — —
– transfers from stage 2 to stage 1 7,255 (569) (7,255) 569 — — — —
– transfers to stage 3 (179) 2 (765) 327 944 (329) — —
– transfers from stage 3 147 (15) 124 (50) (271) 65 — —
Net remeasurement of ECL arising from transfer of
stage — 280 — (256) — (45) — (21)
Changes due to modifications not derecognised — — — — (2) — (2) —
Net new and further lending/repayments 9,604 18 (1,122) 127 (1) 194 8,481 339
Change to risk parameters – credit quality — 79 — (476) — (694) — (1,091)
Changes to models used for ECL calculation — 22 — (122) — 1 — (99)
Assets written off — — — — (736) 736 (736) 736
Foreign exchange and others1 (7,380) 27 (196) 50 (41) 17 (7,617) 94
At 31 Dec 2024 156,312 (280) 3,760 (658) 343 (199) 160,415 (1,137)
ECL income statement change for the period 399 (727) (544) (872)
Recoveries 106
Others (10)
Total ECL income statement change for the
period (776)
1 Total includes $4.5bn of nominal amount related to derecognition of loan commitments and financial guarantees following the sale of our banking business in
Canada and our business in Argentina during 2024.
Non-credit impaired Credit impaired
Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total
Gross Gross Gross Gross
carrying/ carrying/ carrying/ carrying/
nominal Allowance nominal Allowance nominal Allowance nominal Allowance
amount for ECL amount for ECL amount for ECL amount for ECL
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
At 1 Jan 2023 140,519 (244) 6,747 (777) 353 (160) 147,619 (1,181)
Transfers of financial instruments: 199 (292) (848) 496 649 (204) — —
– transfers from stage 1 to stage 2 (7,855) 102 7,855 (102) — — — —
– transfers from stage 2 to stage 1 8,124 (391) (8,124) 391 — — — —
– transfers to stage 3 (82) 1 (621) 227 703 (228) — —
– transfers from stage 3 12 (4) 42 (20) (54) 24 — —
Net remeasurement of ECL arising from transfer of
stage — 185 — (301) — (5) — (121)
Net new and further lending/repayments 13,206 27 621 169 12 (41) 13,839 155
Change to risk parameters – credit quality — 82 — (281) — (301) — (500)
Changes to models used for ECL calculation — (9) — 15 — 1 — 7
Assets written off — — — — (571) 571 (571) 571
Foreign exchange and others (632) (2) 27 (19) 7 (5) (598) (26)
At 31 Dec 2023 153,292 (253) 6,547 (698) 450 (144) 160,289 (1,095)
ECL income statement change for the period 285 (398) (346) (459)
Recoveries 108
Others (200)
Total ECL income statement change for the period (551)

[PAGE 193]

Other personal lending – reconciliation of changes in gross carrying/nominal amount and allowances for loans and advances to customers
including loan commitments and financial guarantees
Non-credit impaired Credit impaired
Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total
Gross Gross Gross Gross
carrying/ carrying/ carrying/ carrying/
nominal Allowance nominal Allowance nominal Allowance nominal Allowance
amount for ECL amount for ECL amount for ECL amount for ECL
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
At 1 Jan 2024 156,767 (240) 5,895 (534) 1,152 (448) 163,814 (1,222)
Transfers of financial instruments: 742 (360) (1,570) 528 828 (168) — —
– transfers from stage 1 to stage 2 (5,269) 94 5,269 (94) — — — —
– transfers from stage 2 to stage 1 6,181 (434) (6,181) 434 — — — —
– transfers to stage 3 (274) 1 (823) 268 1,097 (269) — —
– transfers from stage 3 104 (21) 165 (80) (269) 101 — —
Net remeasurement of ECL arising from transfer of
stage — 302 — (197) — (57) — 48
Changes due to modifications not derecognised — — — — (23) — (23) —
Net new and further lending/repayments 6,177 (55) (431) 125 (272) 243 5,474 313
Change to risk parameters – credit quality — 57 — (325) — (640) — (908)
Changes to models used for ECL calculation — 15 — (16) — (22) — (23)
Assets written off — — — — (735) 735 (735) 735
Foreign exchange and others1,2 (8,023) 32 (385) 49 (121) 40 (8,529) 121
At 31 Dec 2024 155,663 (249) 3,509 (370) 829 (317) 160,001 (936)
ECL income statement change for the period 319 (413) (476) (570)
Recoveries 107
Others (21)
Total ECL income statement change for the
period (484)
1 Total includes $0.3bn of gross carrying loans and advances, which were classified to assets held for sale, and a corresponding allowance for ECL of $10m,
reflecting business disposals, as disclosed in Note 23 ‘Assets held for sale and liabilities of disposal groups held for sale’ on page 411.
2 Total includes $4.4bn of nominal amount related to derecognition of loan commitments and financial guarantees following the sale of our banking business in
Canada during 2024.
Non-credit impaired Credit impaired
Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total
Gross Gross Gross Gross
carrying/ carrying/ carrying/ carrying/
nominal Allowance nominal Allowance nominal Allowance nominal Allowance
amount for ECL amount for ECL amount for ECL amount for ECL
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
At 1 Jan 2023 145,136 (269) 5,768 (497) 1,556 (375) 152,460 (1,141)
Transfers of financial instruments: (1,161) (218) 466 453 695 (235) — —
– transfers from stage 1 to stage 2 (8,155) 140 8,155 (140) — — — —
– transfers from stage 2 to stage 1 7,019 (354) (7,019) 354 — — — —
– transfers to stage 3 (106) 1 (766) 287 872 (288) — —
– transfers from stage 3 81 (5) 96 (48) (177) 53 — —
Net remeasurement of ECL arising from transfer of
stage — 306 — (299) — (7) — —
Net new and further lending/repayments 5,758 (71) (1,395) 159 (430) (137) 3,933 (49)
Change to risk parameters – credit quality — 6 — (293) — (385) — (672)
Changes to models used for ECL calculation — (2) — (22) — 6 — (18)
Assets written off — — — — (702) 702 (702) 702
Foreign exchange and others1 7,034 8 1,056 (35) 33 (17) 8,123 (44)
At 31 Dec 2023 156,767 (240) 5,895 (534) 1,152 (448) 163,814 (1,222)
ECL income statement change for the period 239 (455) (523) (739)
Recoveries 108
Others 195
Total ECL income statement change for the period (436)
1 Total includes $7.2bn of gross carrying loans and advances and a corresponding allowance for ECL of $10m, due to the retention of certain balances previously
classified as assets held for sale of our retail banking operations in France. For further details, see Note 23 ‘Assets held for sale and liabilities of disposal groups
held for sale’ on page 411.
Risk
review

[PAGE 194]

Risk review
Personal lending – credit risk profile by internal PD band for loans and advances to customers at amortised cost
Gross carrying amount Allowance for ECL
ECL
PD range1 2 Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total coverage
% $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m %
First lien residential
mortgages 324,703 34,177 2,450 361,330 (59) (130) (284) (473) 0.1
– Band 1 0.000 to 0.250 234,451 1,820 — 236,271 (15) (4) — (19) —
– Band 2 0.251 to 0.500 64,340 11,816 — 76,156 (10) (9) — (19) —
– Band 3 0.501 to 1.500 22,005 14,631 — 36,636 (16) (25) — (41) 0.1
– Band 4 1.501 to 5.000 3,668 3,990 — 7,658 (17) (27) — (44) 0.6
– Band 5 5.001 to 20.000 117 1,178 — 1,295 — (13) — (13) 1.0
– Band 6 20.001 to 99.999 122 742 — 864 (1) (52) — (53) 6.1
– Band 7 100.000 — — 2,450 2,450 — — (284) (284) 11.6
Credit cards 21,611 2,991 313 24,915 (268) (660) (199) (1,127) 4.5
– Band 1 0.000 to 0.250 10,051 1 — 10,052 (26) — — (26) 0.3
– Band 2 0.251 to 0.500 2,340 4 — 2,344 (15) (1) — (16) 0.7
– Band 3 0.501 to 1.500 5,113 23 — 5,136 (72) (5) — (77) 1.5
– Band 4 1.501 to 5.000 3,847 1,013 — 4,860 (123) (103) — (226) 4.7
– Band 5 5.001 to 20.000 260 1,526 — 1,786 (32) (263) — (295) 16.5
– Band 6 20.001 to 99.999 — 424 — 424 — (288) — (288) 67.9
– Band 7 100.000 — — 313 313 — — (199) (199) 63.6
Other personal lending 57,432 2,751 797 60,980 (243) (368) (313) (924) 1.5
– Band 1 0.000 to 0.250 29,124 19 — 29,143 (30) — — (30) 0.1
– Band 2 0.251 to 0.500 6,109 242 — 6,351 (9) (1) — (10) 0.2
– Band 3 0.501 to 1.500 11,702 121 — 11,823 (37) (3) — (40) 0.3
– Band 4 1.501 to 5.000 9,006 660 — 9,666 (95) (25) — (120) 1.2
– Band 5 5.001 to 20.000 1,433 1,076 — 2,509 (70) (111) — (181) 7.2
– Band 6 20.001 to 99.999 58 633 — 691 (2) (228) — (230) 33.3
– Band 7 100.000 — — 797 797 — — (313) (313) 39.3
At 31 Dec 2024 403,746 39,919 3,560 447,225 (570) (1,158) (796) (2,524) 0.6
First lien residential
mortgages 320,410 38,287 2,212 360,909 (102) (200) (269) (571) 0.2
– Band 1 0.000 to 0.250 229,188 3,174 — 232,362 (16) (14) — (30) —
– Band 2 0.251 to 0.500 54,891 12,266 — 67,157 (11) (17) — (28) —
– Band 3 0.501 to 1.500 28,159 16,140 — 44,299 (22) (49) — (71) 0.2
– Band 4 1.501 to 5.000 7,451 4,559 — 12,010 (52) (30) — (82) 0.7
– Band 5 5.001 to 20.000 599 1,097 — 1,696 — (11) — (11) 0.6
– Band 6 20.001 to 99.999 122 1,051 — 1,173 (1) (79) — (80) 6.8
– Band 7 100.000 — — 2,212 2,212 — — (269) (269) 12.2
Credit cards 19,909 4,419 352 24,680 (236) (697) (203) (1,136) 4.6
– Band 1 0.000 to 0.250 9,490 1 — 9,491 (32) — — (32) 0.3
– Band 2 0.251 to 0.500 2,481 6 — 2,487 (21) (1) — (22) 0.9
– Band 3 0.501 to 1.500 4,799 294 — 5,093 (56) (17) — (73) 1.4
– Band 4 1.501 to 5.000 2,787 2,291 — 5,078 (93) (158) — (251) 4.9
– Band 5 5.001 to 20.000 352 1,374 — 1,726 (34) (258) — (292) 16.9
– Band 6 20.001 to 99.999 — 453 — 453 — (263) — (263) 58.1
– Band 7 100 — — 352 352 — — (203) (203) 57.7
Other personal lending 56,215 4,777 941 61,933 (241) (537) (382) (1,160) 1.9
– Band 1 0.000 to 0.250 28,115 30 — 28,145 (34) (1) — (35) 0.1
– Band 2 0.251 to 0.500 6,634 286 — 6,920 (11) (1) — (12) 0.2
– Band 3 0.501 to 1.500 12,935 329 — 13,264 (61) (9) — (70) 0.5
– Band 4 1.501 to 5.000 7,215 1,447 — 8,662 (79) (46) — (125) 1.4
– Band 5 5.001 to 20.000 1,137 2,005 — 3,142 (55) (199) — (254) 8.1
– Band 6 20.001 to 99.999 179 680 — 859 (1) (281) — (282) 32.8
– Band 7 100.000 — — 941 941 — — (382) (382) 40.6
At 31 Dec 2023 396,534 47,483 3,505 447,522 (579) (1,434) (854) (2,867) 0.6
1 12-month point in time adjusted for multiple economic scenarios.
2 PD bands do not consider the impact of any management judgemental adjustments on stage or allowances for ECL including the impact of new models not yet
formally implemented. For a list of management judgemental adjustments see page 155.

[PAGE 195]

Personal lending – credit risk profile by internal PD band for loan and other credit-related commitments and financial guarantees
Nominal amount Allowance for ECL
ECL
PD range1 Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total coverage
% $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m %
Loan and other credit-
related commitments 251,489 1,680 86 253,255 (17) — (5) (22) —
– Band 1 0.000 to 0.250 199,314 65 — 199,379 (9) — — (9) —
– Band 2 0.251 to 0.500 14,409 178 — 14,587 (2) — — (2) —
– Band 3 0.501 to 1.500 28,081 389 — 28,470 (1) — — (1) —
– Band 4 1.501 to 5.000 8,431 463 — 8,894 (3) — — (3) —
– Band 5 5.001 to 20.000 800 484 — 1,284 (2) — — (2) 0.2
– Band 6 20.001 to 99.999 454 101 — 555 — — — — —
– Band 7 100.000 — — 86 86 — — (5) (5) 5.8
Financial guarantees 1,416 11 — 1,427 — — — — —
– Band 1 0.000 to 0.250 743 — — 743 — — — — —
– Band 2 0.251 to 0.500 389 — — 389 — — — — —
– Band 3 0.501 to 1.500 55 — — 55 — — — — —
– Band 4 1.501 to 5.000 220 — — 220 — — — — —
– Band 5 5.001 to 20.000 3 11 — 14 — — — — —
– Band 6 20.001 to 99.999 6 — — 6 — — — — —
– Band 7 100.000 — — — — — — — — —
At 31 Dec 2024 252,905 1,691 86 254,682 (17) — (5) (22) —
Loan and other credit-
related commitments 253,183 3,459 355 256,997 (23) — (2) (25) —
– Band 1 0.000 to 0.250 196,201 114 — 196,315 (15) — — (15) —
– Band 2 0.251 to 0.500 17,861 63 — 17,924 (1) — — (1) —
– Band 3 0.501 to 1.500 29,623 1,262 — 30,885 (1) — — (1) —
– Band 4 1.501 to 5.000 8,550 1,334 — 9,884 (4) — — (4) —
– Band 5 5.001 to 20.000 508 564 — 1,072 (2) — — (2) 0.2
– Band 6 20.001 to 99.999 440 122 — 562 — — — — —
– Band 7 100.000 — — 355 355 — — (2) (2) 0.6
Financial guarantees 1,106 13 — 1,119 — — — — —
– Band 1 0.000 to 0.250 348 — — 348 — — — — —
– Band 2 0.251 to 0.500 386 — — 386 — — — — —
– Band 3 0.501 to 1.500 359 1 — 360 — — — — —
– Band 4 1.501 to 5.000 3 — — 3 — — — — —
– Band 5 5.001 to 20.000 2 12 — 14 — — — — —
– Band 6 20.001 to 99.999 8 — — 8 — — — — —
– Band 7 100.000 — — — — — — — — —
At 31 Dec 2023 254,289 3,472 355 258,116 (23) — (2) (25) —
1 12-month point in time adjusted for multiple economic scenarios.
Risk
review

[PAGE 196]

Risk review
Collateral on loans and advances
(Audited)
The following table provides a quantification of the value of fixed established market. The collateral valuation excludes any adjustments
charges we hold over specific assets where we have a history for obtaining and selling the collateral and, in particular, loans shown
of enforcing, and are able to enforce, collateral in satisfying a debt in as not collateralised or partially collateralised may also benefit from
the event of the borrower failing to meet its contractual obligations, other forms of credit mitigants.
and where the collateral is cash or can be realised by sale in an
Personal lending – residential mortgage loans including loan commitments by level of collateral for key countries/territories by stage
(Audited)
Gross carrying/nominal amount ECL coverage
Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total
$m $m $m $m % % % %
Fully collateralised by LTV ratio 332,641 34,203 2,371 369,215 — 0.4 10.0 0.1
– less than 50% 141,331 18,076 1,238 160,645 — 0.2 7.6 0.1
– 51% to 70% 111,963 11,507 698 124,168 — 0.4 11.2 0.1
– 71% to 80% 39,374 3,040 242 42,656 — 0.7 13.1 0.1
– 81% to 90% 25,514 1,264 131 26,909 — 0.9 15.0 0.1
– 91% to 100% 14,459 316 62 14,837 — 1.8 22.4 0.1
Partially collateralised (A): LTV > 100% 12,031 139 103 12,273 — 3.2 46.2 0.4
– collateral value on A 11,274 126 70 11,470
Total at 31 Dec 2024 344,672 34,342 2,474 381,488 — 0.4 11.5 0.1
of which: UK
Fully collateralised by LTV ratio 151,264 30,574 747 182,585 — 0.2 8.5 0.1
– less than 50% 62,753 16,689 445 79,887 — 0.1 6.9 0.1
– 51% to 70% 50,374 10,456 206 61,036 — 0.2 9.7 0.1
– 71% to 80% 20,552 2,423 64 23,039 — 0.4 12.1 0.1
– 81% to 90% 15,965 939 23 16,927 — 0.6 13.0 0.1
– 91% to 100% 1,620 67 9 1,696 — 0.7 16.7 0.1
Partially collateralised (B): LTV > 100% 146 15 5 166 — 1.0 27.7 0.9
– collateral value on B 109 12 4 125
Total UK at 31 Dec 2024 151,410 30,589 752 182,751 — 0.2 8.6 0.1
of which: Hong Kong
Fully collateralised 95,751 756 138 96,645 — — 1.3 —
– less than 50% 38,894 372 79 39,345 — — 0.4 —
– 51% to 70% 30,088 227 31 30,346 — — 0.4 —
– 71% to 80% 6,783 47 11 6,841 — — 5.1 —
– 81% to 90% 7,602 42 9 7,653 — 0.2 1.1 —
– 91% to 100% 12,384 68 8 12,460 — 0.1 8.8 —
Partially collateralised (C): LTV > 100% 11,744 103 14 11,861 — 0.2 19.1 —
– collateral value on C 11,034 96 12 11,142
Total Hong Kong at 31 Dec 2024 107,495 859 152 108,506 — 0.1 2.9 —
Fully collateralised by LTV ratio 331,279 38,378 2,129 371,786 — 0.5 10.1 0.1
– less than 50% 140,992 19,715 1,165 161,872 — 0.3 7.1 0.1
– 51% to 70% 113,043 12,636 568 126,247 — 0.6 10.9 0.1
– 71% to 80% 37,866 4,111 229 42,206 — 0.9 15.2 0.2
– 81% to 90% 23,278 1,499 109 24,886 — 1.2 17.3 0.2
– 91% to 100% 16,100 417 58 16,575 — 1.6 28.9 0.2
Partially collateralised (A): LTV > 100% 9,529 136 129 9,794 — 3.4 42.0 0.6
– collateral value on A 8,968 123 104 9,195
Total at 31 Dec 2023 340,808 38,514 2,258 381,580 — 0.5 11.9 0.1
of which: UK
Fully collateralised by LTV ratio 146,739 33,597 759 181,095 — 0.3 9.7 0.1
– less than 50% 60,403 17,629 458 78,490 — 0.2 7.9 0.1
– 51% to 70% 49,945 11,248 207 61,400 — 0.4 9.4 0.1
– 71% to 80% 20,293 3,275 61 23,629 — 0.6 13.4 0.1
– 81% to 90% 12,946 1,161 18 14,125 — 0.8 17.5 0.1
– 91% to 100% 3,152 284 15 3,451 — 1.0 41.6 0.3
Partially collateralised (B): LTV > 100% 317 19 27 363 0.1 1.7 17.5 1.4
– collateral value on B 244 15 22 281
Total UK at 31 Dec 2023 147,056 33,616 786 181,458 — 0.3 9.9 0.1
of which: Hong Kong
Fully collateralised by LTV ratio 97,414 1,354 93 98,861 — — 0.3 —
– less than 50% 41,903 831 66 42,800 — — 0.1 —
– 51% to 70% 29,762 330 15 30,107 — — 0.5 —
– 71% to 80% 5,260 48 2 5,310 — 0.1 0.4 —
– 81% to 90% 8,161 61 4 8,226 — 0.1 1.9 —
– 91% to 100% 12,328 84 6 12,418 — 0.3 1.8 —
Partially collateralised (C): LTV > 100% 8,973 86 4 9,063 — 0.9 7.8 —
– collateral value on C 8,535 81 4 8,620
Total Hong Kong at 31 Dec 2023 106,387 1,440 97 107,924 — 0.1 0.7 —

[PAGE 197]

Supplementary information
Wholesale lending – loans and advances to customers at amortised cost by country/territory
Gross carrying amount Allowance for ECL
Corporate of which: real Non-bank Corporate of which: real Non-bank
and estate and financial and estate and financial
commercial construction1 institutions Total commercial construction1 institutions Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
UK 102,245 17,540 21,771 124,016 (1,412) (289) (234) (1,646)
– of which: HSBC UK Bank
plc (ring-fenced bank) 79,833 16,722 10,268 90,101 (1,146) (260) (54) (1,200)
– of which: HSBC Bank plc
(non-ring-fenced bank) 22,412 818 11,503 33,915 (266) (29) (180) (446)
– of which: Other trading
entities — — — — — — — —
France 25,950 3,986 7,222 33,172 (257) (42) (9) (266)
Germany 6,256 264 421 6,677 (153) — — (153)
Hong Kong 118,332 42,042 17,846 136,178 (2,922) (1,494) (112) (3,034)
Australia 12,532 4,509 2,931 15,463 (30) (3) — (30)
India 12,540 2,581 6,425 18,965 (45) (5) (6) (51)
Indonesia 3,132 184 356 3,488 (109) (44) — (109)
Mainland China 29,930 5,326 8,044 37,974 (222) (117) (6) (228)
Malaysia 5,773 1,067 278 6,051 (40) (10) — (40)
Singapore 17,267 3,266 1,830 19,097 (234) (80) (1) (235)
Taiwan 3,848 60 — 3,848 — — — —
Egypt 777 32 51 828 (115) (20) — (115)
UAE 13,278 1,809 1,589 14,867 (408) (258) — (408)
US 24,084 4,028 10,348 34,432 (246) (106) (47) (293)
Mexico 10,318 525 1,407 11,725 (201) (9) (11) (212)
Other 24,422 2,844 1,945 26,367 (361) (121) (10) (371)
At 31 Dec 2024 410,684 90,063 82,464 493,148 (6,755) (2,598) (436) (7,191)
UK 105,536 17,852 18,343 123,879 (1,451) (246) (231) (1,682)
– of which: HSBC UK Bank
plc (ring-fenced bank) 80,248 17,060 9,372 89,620 (1,212) (212) (66) (1,278)
– of which: HSBC Bank plc
(non-ring-fenced bank) 24,791 792 8,971 33,762 (240) (34) (165) (405)
– of which: Other trading
entities 497 — — 497 1 — — 1
France 27,017 4,796 5,701 32,718 (636) (53) (18) (654)
Germany 6,667 240 632 7,299 (74) — — (74)
Hong Kong 125,340 48,594 19,319 144,659 (3,099) (2,147) (57) (3,156)
Australia 12,685 4,443 1,564 14,249 (49) (1) — (49)
India 10,856 2,083 5,315 16,171 (47) (7) (4) (51)
Indonesia 3,100 162 411 3,511 (136) (58) — (136)
Mainland China 28,655 6,709 7,775 36,430 (313) (212) (11) (324)
Malaysia 5,797 1,137 258 6,055 (69) (15) — (69)
Singapore 15,845 3,458 948 16,793 (321) (40) (1) (322)
Taiwan 4,512 30 81 4,593 — — — —
Egypt 899 45 86 985 (128) (10) (1) (129)
UAE 13,740 1,979 823 14,563 (543) (296) — (543)
US 26,993 5,143 9,155 36,148 (239) (101) (58) (297)
Mexico 11,326 865 1,349 12,675 (320) (19) (5) (325)
Other 28,687 3,919 2,672 31,359 (378) (81) (18) (396)
At 31 Dec 2023 427,655 101,455 74,432 502,087 (7,803) (3,286) (404) (8,207)
1 Real estate lending within this disclosure corresponds solely to the industry of the borrower. Commercial real estate on page 177 includes borrowers in multiple
industries investing in income-producing assets and, to a lesser extent, their construction and development.
Risk
review

[PAGE 198]

Risk review
Personal lending – loans and advances to customers at amortised cost by country/territory
Gross carrying amount Allowance for ECL
First lien of which: First lien of which:
residential Other credit residential Other credit
mortgages personal cards Total mortgages personal cards Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
UK 170,809 21,426 8,016 192,235 (139) (540) (284) (679)
– of which: HSBC UK Bank plc (ring-fenced bank) 166,709 18,029 7,933 184,738 (132) (534) (283) (666)
– of which: HSBC Bank plc (non-ring-fenced
bank) 4,100 3,397 83 7,497 (7) (6) (1) (13)
– of which: Other trading entities — — — — — — — —
France1 377 6,601 1 6,978 (12) (12) — (24)
Germany — — — — — — — —
Hong Kong 107,759 31,676 10,165 139,435 (5) (421) (291) (426)
Australia 22,154 407 372 22,561 (7) (9) (8) (16)
India 1,984 865 265 2,849 (3) (18) (14) (21)
Indonesia 46 323 142 369 (3) (11) (6) (14)
Mainland China 6,087 771 227 6,858 (12) (42) (33) (54)
Malaysia 3,252 1,198 938 4,450 (23) (62) (36) (85)
Singapore 5,802 6,653 571 12,455 — (56) (28) (56)
Taiwan 5,788 1,424 340 7,212 — (15) (4) (15)
Egypt — 321 89 321 — (1) — (1)
UAE 2,082 1,338 543 3,420 (3) (55) (31) (58)
US 21,021 653 195 21,674 (12) (16) (14) (28)
Mexico 7,488 5,320 2,242 12,808 (167) (719) (339) (886)
Other 6,681 6,919 809 13,600 (87) (74) (39) (161)
At 31 Dec 2024 361,330 85,895 24,915 447,225 (473) (2,051) (1,127) (2,524)
UK 168,469 19,503 8,056 187,972 (209) (697) (339) (906)
– of which: HSBC UK Bank plc (ring-fenced bank) 164,878 17,884 7,975 182,762 (205) (692) (336) (897)
– of which: HSBC Bank plc (non-ring-fenced
bank) 3,226 141 81 3,367 (3) (5) (2) (8)
– of which: Other trading entities 365 1,478 — 1,843 (1) — (1) (1)
France1 436 7,476 1 7,912 (13) (8) — (21)
Germany — 165 — 165 — — — —
Hong Kong 107,182 31,248 9,663 138,430 (2) (417) (286) (419)
Australia 23,001 446 396 23,447 (5) (19) (18) (24)
India 1,537 680 185 2,217 (4) (16) (12) (20)
Indonesia 58 288 137 346 (2) (11) (7) (13)
Mainland China 7,503 754 287 8,257 (3) (49) (39) (52)
Malaysia 2,313 2,115 882 4,428 (23) (87) (36) (110)
Singapore 8,151 5,589 521 13,740 — (38) (17) (38)
Taiwan 5,607 1,370 309 6,977 — (17) (4) (17)
Egypt — 341 89 341 — (1) (1) (1)
UAE 1,957 1,325 440 3,282 (10) (62) (24) (72)
US 18,340 673 199 19,013 (15) (19) (14) (34)
Mexico 8,778 6,215 2,465 14,993 (176) (757) (297) (933)
Other 7,577 8,425 1,050 16,002 (109) (98) (42) (207)
At 31 Dec 2023 360,909 86,613 24,680 447,522 (571) (2,296) (1,136) (2,867)
1 Included in other personal lending at 31 December 2024 is $6,562m (31 December 2023: $7,424m) guaranteed by Crédit Logement.

[PAGE 199]

Summary of financial instruments to which the impairment requirements in IFRS 9 are applied – by global business
Gross carrying/nominal amount Allowance for ECL
Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI Total Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
WPB1 569,548 39,984 3,717 — 613,249 (596) (1,166) (811) — (2,573)
CMB 436,536 44,223 16,912 48 497,719 (446) (1,020) (4,713) (29) (6,208)
GBM 674,730 10,676 2,116 42 687,564 (106) (331) (524) (22) (983)
Corporate Centre1 72,079 369 25 — 72,473 (3) (36) (17) — (56)
Total gross carrying amount on-balance sheet at
31 Dec 2024 1,752,893 95,252 22,770 90 1,871,005 (1,151) (2,553) (6,065) (51) (9,820)
WPB 252,695 1,674 84 — 254,453 (17) — (9) — (26)
CMB 132,703 13,879 896 — 147,478 (97) (92) (86) — (275)
GBM 226,995 7,019 226 3 234,243 (31) (34) (11) — (76)
Corporate Centre 191 — — — 191 — — — — —
Total nominal amount off-balance sheet at
31 Dec 2024 612,584 22,572 1,206 3 636,365 (145) (126) (106) — (377)
WPB 142,388 339 — — 142,727 (14) (2) — — (16)
CMB 103,406 323 — — 103,729 (7) (2) — — (9)
GBM 97,422 149 — — 97,571 (9) — — — (9)
Corporate Centre 2,028 69 — — 2,097 (1) (19) — — (20)
Debt instruments measured at FVOCI at
31 Dec 2024 345,244 880 — — 346,124 (31) (23) — — (54)
WPB 630,661 54,069 4,233 — 688,963 (621) (1,551) (977) — (3,149)
CMB 464,893 66,688 12,698 49 544,328 (508) (1,336) (4,995) (23) (6,862)
GBM 696,377 14,247 3,002 32 713,658 (119) (199) (1,161) (7) (1,486)
Corporate Centre 75,805 37 6 — 75,848 (1) (13) — — (14)
Total gross carrying amount on-balance sheet at
31 Dec 2023 1,867,736 135,041 19,939 81 2,022,797 (1,249) (3,099) (7,133) (30) (11,511)
WPB 253,333 3,811 333 — 257,477 (22) — (2) — (24)
CMB 142,206 16,238 877 — 159,321 (100) (101) (102) — (303)
GBM 250,007 10,752 314 4 261,077 (38) (34) (7) — (79)
Corporate Centre 149 — — — 149 — — — — —
Total nominal amount off-balance sheet at
31 Dec 2023 645,695 30,801 1,524 4 678,024 (160) (135) (111) — (406)
WPB 124,747 406 — — 125,153 (14) (17) — — (31)
CMB 86,021 405 — — 86,426 (9) (18) — — (27)
GBM 88,229 173 1 — 88,403 (13) (6) (1) — (20)
Corporate Centre 2,201 165 — — 2,366 (1) (18) — — (19)
Debt instruments measured at FVOCI at
31 Dec 2023 301,198 1,149 1 — 302,348 (37) (59) (1) — (97)
1 With effect from 1 January 2024, following the sale of our retail banking business in France, we have prospectively reclassified the $7.4bn portfolio of retained
loans from WPB to Corporate Centre.
Risk
review

[PAGE 200]

Risk review
Loans and advances to customers and banks – other supplementary information
Gross of which: of which:
carrying stage 3 Allowance stage 3 Change in
amount and POCI for ECL and POCI ECL Write-offs Recoveries
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m
First lien residential mortgages 361,330 2,450 (473) (284) 33 (63) 7
– second lien residential mortgages 395 19 (2) (2) 6 — 1
– guaranteed loans in respect of residential property 6,698 20 (9) (5) 3 (7) —
– other personal lending which is secured 31,180 138 (31) (15) 5 (3) —
– credit cards 24,915 313 (1,127) (199) (804) (736) 106
– other personal lending which is unsecured 20,660 598 (838) (279) (484) (699) 103
– motor vehicle finance 2,047 22 (44) (12) (38) (26) 3
Other personal lending 85,895 1,110 (2,051) (512) (1,312) (1,471) 213
Personal lending 447,225 3,560 (2,524) (796) (1,279) (1,534) 220
– agriculture, forestry and fishing 7,033 282 (94) (46) 4 (10) 1
– mining and quarrying 7,592 318 (45) (32) 29 (26) —
– manufacturing 82,724 1,487 (893) (638) (170) (403) 3
– electricity, gas, steam and air-conditioning supply 16,457 209 (122) (85) — — —
– water supply, sewerage, waste management and
remediation 2,961 43 (24) (16) 2 (40) —
– real estate and construction 90,063 8,949 (2,598) (1,842) (812) (1,554) 12
– wholesale and retail trade, repair of motor vehicles and
motorcycles 77,830 2,728 (1,372) (1,188) (369) (337) 8
– transportation and storage 22,643 417 (321) (232) (104) (20) 1
– accommodation and food 14,734 1,610 (299) (214) (81) (27) —
– publishing, audiovisual and broadcasting 19,826 229 (158) (61) (79) (75) 2
– professional, scientific and technical activities 26,128 648 (266) (188) (132) (174) 1
– administrative and support services 20,117 739 (320) (254) (39) (88) 1
– public administration and defence, compulsory social
security 64 — — — — — —
– education 1,596 43 (27) (16) (16) (3) —
– health and care 4,030 184 (51) (25) (3) (12) 1
– arts, entertainment and recreation 2,066 78 (35) (26) (19) (22) —
– other services 7,288 327 (110) (66) (82) (115) 10
– activities of households 589 — — — — — —
– extra-territorial organisations and bodies activities 118 — — — — — —
– government 6,793 175 (7) (5) 6 — —
– asset-backed securities 32 — (13) — 1 — —
Corporate and commercial 410,684 18,466 (6,755) (4,934) (1,864) (2,906) 40
Non-bank financial institutions 82,464 679 (436) (361) (59) (19) —
Wholesale lending 493,148 19,145 (7,191) (5,295) (1,923) (2,925) 40
Loans and advances to customers 940,373 22,705 (9,715) (6,091) (3,202) (4,459) 260
Loans and advances to banks 102,052 2 (13) (2) (1) — —
At 31 Dec 2024 1,042,425 22,707 (9,728) (6,093) (3,203) (4,459) 260

[PAGE 201]

Loans and advances to customers and banks – other supplementary information (continued)
Gross of which: of which:
carrying stage 3 and Allowance stage 3 and Change in
amount POCI for ECL POCI ECL Write-offs Recoveries
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m
First lien residential mortgages 360,909 2,212 (571) (269) (10) (53) 10
– second lien residential mortgages 396 21 (8) (5) (1) (1) 2
– guaranteed loans in respect of residential property 8,593 90 (20) (14) 2 (8) 2
– other personal lending which is secured 29,481 157 (42) (24) 8 (2) 2
– credit cards 24,680 352 (1,136) (203) (577) (571) 108
– other personal lending which is unsecured 21,251 659 (1,048) (331) (380) (663) 99
– motor vehicle finance 2,212 14 (42) (8) (61) (28) 3
Other personal lending 86,613 1,293 (2,296) (585) (1,009) (1,273) 216
Personal lending 447,522 3,505 (2,867) (854) (1,019) (1,326) 226
– agriculture, forestry and fishing 7,181 312 (130) (64) (21) (9) —
– mining and quarrying 7,223 325 (101) (83) 27 (49) —
– manufacturing 85,333 1,899 (1,143) (860) (355) (273) 11
– electricity, gas, steam and air-conditioning supply 14,355 255 (119) (88) (26) (10) —
– water supply, sewerage, waste management and
remediation 3,262 102 (63) (51) (44) (2) —
– real estate and construction 101,455 5,883 (3,286) (2,561) (1,358) (1,191) 6
– wholesale and retail trade, repair of motor vehicles and
motorcycles 79,121 2,362 (1,341) (1,134) (124) (447) 12
– transportation and storage 21,456 445 (230) (160) (87) (42) —
– accommodation and food 15,874 1,058 (257) (112) (33) (26) —
– publishing, audiovisual and broadcasting 19,731 210 (173) (50) (106) (73) —
– professional, scientific and technical activities 26,753 740 (401) (306) (262) (110) 1
– administrative and support services 22,203 597 (268) (174) 39 (137) —
– public administration and defence, compulsory social
security 1,042 — — — — — —
– education 1,460 46 (15) (4) (1) (22) —
– health and care 4,236 183 (56) (26) 40 (7) —
– arts, entertainment and recreation 1,961 99 (42) (31) 15 (8) —
– other services 8,355 318 (153) (90) 22 (181) 12
– activities of households 694 — — — — — —
– extra-territorial organisations and bodies activities 101 — — — — — —
– government 5,827 205 (12) (10) (15) — —
– asset-backed securities 32 — (13) — — — —
Corporate and commercial 427,655 15,039 (7,803) (5,804) (2,289) (2,587) 42
Non-bank financial institutions 74,432 810 (404) (322) (168) (9) —
Wholesale lending 502,087 15,849 (8,207) (6,126) (2,457) (2,596) 42
Loans and advances to customers 949,609 19,354 (11,074) (6,980) (3,476) (3,922) 268
Loans and advances to banks 112,917 2 (15) (2) 53 — —
At 31 Dec 2023 1,062,526 19,356 (11,089) (6,982) (3,423) (3,922) 268
HSBC Holdings
(Audited)
Credit risk in HSBC Holdings primarily arises from transactions with on a net basis under normal circumstances, they do not qualify for net
Group subsidiaries. presentation for accounting purposes. These offsets also include
collateral received in cash and other financial assets.
In HSBC Holdings, the maximum exposure to credit risk arises from
two components: The total offset relating to our derivative asset balances was $3.0bn at
31 December 2024 (2023: $3.0bn).
– financial assets on the balance sheet, where maximum exposure
equals the carrying amount (see page 350); and The credit quality of loans and advances and financial investments,
both of which consist of intra-Group lending and US Treasury bills and
– financial guarantees and other guarantees, where the maximum
bonds, is assessed as ‘strong’, with 100% of the exposure being
exposure is the maximum that we would have to pay if the
neither past due nor impaired (2023: 100%). For further details of
guarantees were called upon (see Note 33).
credit quality classification, see page 140.
In the case of our derivative asset balances (see page 350), there is a
legally enforceable right of offset in the event of counterparty default
and where, as a result, there is a net exposure for credit risk
purposes. However, as there is no intention to settle these balances
Risk
review

[PAGE 202]

Risk review
Treasury risk
– On 6 December 2024, HSBC completed the sale of HSBC
Contents Argentina to Grupo Financiero Galicia recognising a loss on
disposal of $1bn. In addition, $5.2bn of FX and other reserve
200 Overview losses were recycled to the income statement on completion. The
200 Treasury risk management sale had an immaterial capital impact.
202 Other Group risks – The Bank continues its delivery efforts against regulatory
204 Capital risk in 2024 commitments, including enhancements to regulatory reporting and
207 Liquidity and funding risk in 2024 the implementation of prudential policy changes across the
jurisdictions in which we operate. We continue to assess the
211 Structural foreign exchange risk in 2024
impact of Basel 3.1, following the PRA announcement to delay the
212 Interest rate risk in the banking book in 2024
implementation until 1 January 2027, and expect a modest benefit
to our CET1 ratio.
Overview – We have made significant progress in improving our recovery and
resolution capabilities in line with the Group’s preferred resolution
Treasury risk is the risk of having insufficient capital, liquidity or strategy and regulatory expectations, including the Bank of
funding resources to meet financial obligations and satisfy regulatory England’s (‘BoE’) Resolvability Assessment Framework (‘RAF’).
requirements, including the risk of adverse impact on earnings or – We further stabilised our banking net interest income through
capital due to structural and transactional foreign exchange increasing both the size and duration of our structural hedge.
exposures, as well as changes in market interest rates, together with
pension and insurance risk. For quantitative disclosures on capital ratios, own funds and risk-weighted
assets (‘RWAs’), see pages 204 to 205. For quantitative disclosures on liquidity
Treasury risk arises from changes to the respective resources and risk and funding metrics, see pages 208 to 209. For quantitative disclosures on
profiles driven by customer behaviour, management decisions or the interest rate risk in the banking book, see pages 212 to 214.
external environment.
Governance and structure
Approach and policy
The Global Head of Traded and Treasury Risk Management and Risk
(Audited) Analytics is the accountable risk steward for all treasury risks. The
Group Treasurer is the risk owner for all treasury risks, with the
Our objective in the management of treasury risk is to maintain exception of pension risk and insurance risk. The Group Treasurer co-
appropriate levels of capital, liquidity, funding, foreign exchange and owns pension risk with the Group Head of Performance and Reward.
market risk to support our business strategy, and meet our regulatory Insurance risk is owned by the Chief Executive Officer for Global
and stress testing-related requirements. Insurance.
Our approach to treasury management is driven by our strategic and Capital risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk in the banking book,
organisational requirements, and considers the regulatory, economic structural foreign exchange risk and transactional foreign exchange
and commercial environment. We aim to maintain a strong capital and risk are the responsibility of the Group Operating Committee and the
liquidity base to support the risks inherent in our business and invest Group Risk Committee (‘GRC’). Global Treasury actively manages
in accordance with our strategy, meeting both consolidated and local these risks on an ongoing basis, supported by the Holdings Asset and
regulatory requirements at all times. Liability Management Committee (‘ALCO’) and local ALCOs, overseen
by Treasury Risk Management and Risk Management Meetings.
Our policy is underpinned by our risk management framework. The
risk management framework incorporates a number of measures Pension risk is overseen by a network of local and regional pension
aligned to our assessment of risks for both internal and regulatory risk management meetings. The Global Pensions Financial Risk
purposes. These risks include credit, market, operational, pensions, Management Meeting provides oversight of all pension plans
structural and transactional foreign exchange risk, and interest rate sponsored by HSBC globally and is chaired by the accountable risk
risk in the banking book. steward. Insurance risk is overseen by the Global Insurance Risk
Management Meeting, chaired by the Chief Risk and Compliance
For further details, refer to our Pillar 3 Disclosures at 31 December 2024.
Officer for Global Insurance.
Treasury risk management Capital, liquidity and funding risk
management processes
Key developments in 2024
Assessment and risk appetite
– The Group continues to benefit from a healthy capital, liquidity and
funding position. Our capital management approach is underpinned by a Global Capital
Risk policy and supporting frameworks for recovery and resolution
– The Board approved a fourth interim dividend for full year 2023,
planning and stress testing. The policy sets out our approach to
paid in April 2024. For the full year 2024, the Board approved three
determining key capital risk appetites including CET1, total capital,
interim dividends, which were paid in June, September and
minimum requirements for own funds and eligible liabilities (‘MREL’),
December 2024. A fourth interim dividend has also been
the leverage ratio and double leverage. Our internal capital adequacy
announced with these results. We announced a total of $11bn of
assessment process (‘ICAAP’) is an assessment of the Group’s
share buy-backs during 2024.
capital position, outlining both regulatory and internal capital resources
– On 1 January 2024, HSBC Continental Europe completed the sale and requirements resulting from HSBC’s business model, strategy,
of its retail banking operations in France. risk profile and management, performance and planning, risks to
– On 28 March 2024, HSBC completed the sale of HSBC Bank capital, and the implications of stress testing. Our assessment of
Canada to the Royal Bank of Canada. The associated gain on sale capital adequacy is driven by an assessment of risks. These risks
of $4.8bn, including the recycling of related reserves, added include credit, market, operational, pensions, insurance, structural
approximately 0.8 percentage points to our CET1 ratio in 1Q24. foreign exchange, interest rate risk in the banking book and group
The Board approved a special dividend of $0.21 per share, paid in risk. Climate risk is also considered as part of the ICAAP, and we are
June 2024 alongside the first interim dividend. continuing to develop our approach. The Group’s ICAAP supports the

[PAGE 203]

determination of the consolidated capital risk appetite and target Risks to capital and liquidity
ratios, as well as enables the assessment and determination of capital
Outside the stress testing framework, other risks may be identified
requirements by regulators. Subsidiaries prepare ICAAPs in line with
that have the potential to affect our RWAs, capital and/or liquidity
global guidance, while considering their local regulatory regimes to
position. Downside and upside scenarios are assessed against our
determine their own risk appetites and ratios.
management objectives, and mitigating actions are assigned as
HSBC Holdings is the provider of MREL to its subsidiaries, including necessary. We closely monitor future regulatory developments and
equity and non-equity capital. These investments are funded by HSBC continue to evaluate the impact of these upon our capital and liquidity
Holdings’ own equity capital and MREL-eligible debt. MREL includes requirements, particularly those related to the UK’s implementation of
own funds and liabilities that can be written down or converted into the outstanding measures to be implemented from the Basel III
capital resources in order to absorb losses or recapitalise a bank in the reforms (‘Basel 3.1‘).
event of its failure. In line with our existing structure and business
Regulatory developments
model, HSBC has three resolution groups – the European Resolution
Group, the Asian Resolution Group and the US Resolution Group. The Prudential Regulation Authority (‘PRA‘) published the second part
There are some smaller entities that fall outside these resolution of its near-final rules on the UK’s implementation of Basel 3.1 on
groups. 12 September 2024. On 17 January 2025, the PRA revised the
implementation date to 1 January 2027 to allow greater clarity
HSBC Holdings seeks to maintain a prudent balance between the
regarding implementation in the United States. The Risk Weighted
composition of its capital and its investments in subsidiaries.
Asset (‘RWA‘) output floor is now subject to a three-year transitional
As a matter of long-standing policy, the holding company group provision, ensuring that the date for full implementation remains
retains a substantial holdings capital buffer comprising cash and other 1 January 2030. We continue to assess the impact of Basel 3.1
high-quality liquid assets, which at 31 December 2024 was in excess standards on our capital, including the recent release of more
of $20bn, our target operating level. beneficial PRA near-final rules, developments in the US and
associated implementation challenges (including data provision). We
We aim to ensure that management has oversight of our liquidity and expect that the impact on our CET1 ratio at 1 January 2027 will be a
funding risks at Group and entity level through governance modest benefit.
arrangements, in line with our risk management framework. We
manage liquidity and funding risk at an operating entity level in Regulatory reporting processes and controls
accordance with globally consistent policies, procedures and reporting
We are advancing a comprehensive initiative aimed at strengthening
standards. This ensures that obligations can be met in a timely
our global regulatory reporting processes and making them more
manner, in the jurisdiction where they fall due.
sustainable. This multifaceted programme includes enhancing data,
Operating entities are required to meet internal minimum consistency and controls. This remains a key priority for both HSBC
requirements and any applicable regulatory requirements at all times. management and regulatory authorities.
These requirements are assessed through our internal liquidity While this programme continues, there may be further impacts on
adequacy assessment process (‘ILAAP’), which ensures that some of our regulatory ratios, such as the CET1, LCR and NSFR, as
operating entities have strategies, policies, processes and systems we implement recommended changes and continue to enhance our
for the identification, measurement, management and monitoring of controls across the process.
liquidity risk over an appropriate set of time horizons, including intra-
Stress testing and recovery and resolution
day. The ILAAP informs the setting of risk appetite. It also assesses
the capability to manage liquidity and funding effectively in each major planning
entity. These metrics are set and managed locally but are subject to
The Group uses stress testing to inform management of the capital
global review and challenge to ensure consistency of approach and
and liquidity needed to withstand internal and external shocks,
application of the Group’s policies and controls.
including a global economic downturn or a systems failure. Stress
Planning and performance testing results are also used to inform risk mitigation actions, input
into global business performance through tangible equity allocation,
Capital and RWA plans form part of the annual financial resource plan and recovery and resolution planning, as well as to re-evaluate
that is approved by the Board. Capital and RWA forecasts are business plans where analysis shows capital, liquidity and/or returns
submitted to the Group Executive Committee on a monthly basis, and do not meet their target.
capital and RWAs are monitored and managed against the plan. The
responsibility for global capital allocation principles rests with the In addition to a range of internal stress tests, we are subject to
Group Chief Financial Officer, supported by the Group Capital supervisory stress testing in many jurisdictions. These include the
Management Meeting. This is a specialist forum addressing capital exercises of the Bank of England (‘BoE’), the US Federal Reserve
management, reporting into Holdings ALCO. Board, the European Banking Authority, the European Central Bank
and the Hong Kong Monetary Authority. The results of regulatory
Through our internal governance processes, we seek to strengthen stress testing and our internal stress tests are used when assessing
discipline over our investment and capital allocation decisions, and to our internal capital and liquidity requirements through the ICAAP and
ensure that returns on investment meet management’s objectives. ILAAP. The outcomes of stress testing exercises carried out by the
The Group allocates financial resources to businesses and entities to PRA and other regulators feed into the setting of regulatory minimum
support the execution of our strategy and to meet their regulatory and ratios and buffers.
economic capital needs. We evaluate and manage business returns
by using a return on average tangible equity measure and a related We maintain recovery plans for the Group and material entities, which
economic profit measure. set out potential options management could take in a range of stress
scenarios that could result in a breach of capital or liquidity buffers.
Funding and liquidity plans also form part of the financial resource
plan that is approved by the Board. The Board-level appetite measures The Group recovery plan sets out the framework and governance
are the liquidity coverage ratio (‘LCR’) and net stable funding ratio arrangements to support restoring HSBC to a stable and viable
(‘NSFR’), together with an internal liquidity metric, at entity level. In position, and so lowering the probability of failure from either
addition, we use a wider set of measures to manage an appropriate idiosyncratic company-specific stress or systemic market-wide issues.
funding and liquidity profile, including legal entity depositor Our material entities’ recovery plans provide detailed actions that
concentration limits, intra-day liquidity, forward-looking funding management would consider taking in a stress scenario should their
assessments and other key measures. positions deteriorate and threaten to breach risk appetite and
regulatory minimum levels. This is to help ensure that HSBC entities
can stabilise their financial position and recover from financial losses
in a stress environment.
Risk
review

[PAGE 204]

Risk review
The Group has capabilities, resources and arrangements in place to Other Group risks
address the unlikely event that HSBC might not be recoverable and
would therefore need to be resolved by regulators. In August 2024, Non-trading book foreign exchange
the Group and the Bank of England (‘BoE’) publicly disclosed the
status of HSBC’s progress against the BoE’s Resolvability exposures
Assessment Framework (‘RAF‘). The BoE acknowledged the
significant progress made by HSBC in enhancing its resolvability Structural foreign exchange exposures
capabilities.
Structural foreign exchange exposures arise from capital invested or
Overall, our recovery and resolution planning helps safeguard the net assets in a foreign operation. A foreign operation is an entity that
Group’s financial and operational stability. HSBC has a programme of is a subsidiary, associate, joint venture or branch of a reporting entity
continuous improvement to maintain and enhance its recovery and the activities of which are based or conducted in a country or currency
resolution capabilities, designed to meet the BoE’s expectations and other than those of the reporting entity. An entity’s functional
RAF requirements. reporting currency is normally that of the primary economic
environment in which the entity operates.
Measurement of interest rate risk in
Exchange differences on structural exposures are recognised in other
the banking book processes comprehensive income. We use the US dollar as our presentation
currency in our consolidated financial statements because the US
Assessment and risk appetite dollar and currencies linked to it form the major currency bloc in which
we transact and fund our business. Therefore, our consolidated
Interest rate risk in the banking book (‘IRRBB’) is the risk of an
balance sheet is affected by exchange differences between the US
adverse impact to earnings or capital due to changes in market
dollar and all the non-US dollar functional currencies of underlying
interest rates or changes in expected interest rate repricing of client
foreign operations.
products that impact banking book positions. It is generated by our
non-traded assets and liabilities, specifically loans, deposits and Our structural foreign exchange exposures are managed with the
financial instruments that are not held for trading intent or in order to primary objective of ensuring, where practical, that our consolidated
hedge positions held with trading intent. capital ratios and the capital ratios of individual banking subsidiaries
are largely protected from the effect of changes in exchange rates.
Our global IRRBB risk management framework is designed to ensure
We hedge structural foreign exchange positions where it is capital
that all material sources of IRRBB are identified, measured, managed,
efficient to do so, and subject to approved limits. This is achieved
and monitored, with policies and frameworks in place.
through a combination of net investment hedges and economic
Our IRRBB risks are measured and managed using a combination of hedges. Hedging positions are monitored and rebalanced periodically
earnings-based and economic value measures to ensure that the to manage RWA or downside risks associated with HSBC’s foreign
balance between stabilising earnings and generating value sensitivity currency investments.
is managed appropriately. These metrics measure IRRBB risks across
For further details of our structural foreign exchange exposures, see page 211.
the banking book, to support the overall monitoring against risk
appetite, including: Transactional foreign exchange exposures
– Banking Net Interest Income (‘BNII’) Sensitivity; and Transactional foreign exchange risk arises primarily from day-to-day
transactions in the banking book generating profit and loss or fair
– Economic Value of Equity (‘EVE’) Sensitivity.
value through other comprehensive income reserves in a currency
Banking net interest income sensitivity other than the reporting currency of the operating entity. Transactional
foreign exchange exposure generated through profit and loss is
BNII sensitivity captures the risk to earnings generated from the periodically transferred to Markets and Securities Services and
Banking Book from changes in market implied interest rates over a managed within limits, with the exception of limited residual foreign
12-month period using static rolling balance sheet assumptions. exchange exposure arising from timing differences or for other
reasons. Transactional foreign exchange exposure generated through
The static rolling balance sheet assumptions are in place to ensure
other comprehensive income reserves is managed by Global Treasury
that IRRBB management actions are focused on risks which can be
within approved appetite.
managed within Treasury. A notable exception to this is related to the
price sensitivity of certain interest bearing non-maturity deposits, HSBC Holdings risk management
where we apply dynamic assumptions to ensure we capture any
potential margin widening or compression over the corresponding As a financial services holding company, HSBC Holdings has limited
shock horizon and rate scenario. market risk activities. Its activities predominantly involve maintaining
sufficient capital resources to support the Group’s diverse activities;
Economic value of equity sensitivity
allocating these capital resources across the Group’s businesses;
EVE measures the present value of our banking book assets and earning dividend and interest income on its investments in the
liabilities excluding equity, based on a run-off balance sheet. EVE businesses; payment of operating expenses; providing dividend
sensitivity measures the impact to EVE from a movement in interest payments to its equity shareholders and interest payments to
rates, including the assumed term profile of non-maturing deposits providers of debt capital; and maintaining a supply of short-term liquid
having adjusted for stability and price sensitivity. It is measured and assets for deployment under extraordinary circumstances.
reported as part of our internal risk metrics, regulatory rules (including
The main market risks to which HSBC Holdings is exposed are
the Supervisory Outlier Test) and Pillar 3 disclosures.
banking book interest rate risk and foreign currency risk. Exposure to
Further details of HSBC’s risk management of interest rate risk in the banking these risks arises from short-term cash balances, funding positions
book can be found in the Group’s Pillar 3 Disclosures at 31 December 2024. held, loans to subsidiaries, investments in long-term financial assets,
financial liabilities including debt capital issued, and structural foreign
exchange hedges. In addition, the impacts of the American
Depository Receipts in Grupo Financiero Galicia received as part of
the purchase consideration for HSBC Argentina are recognised by
HSBC Holdings. The objective of HSBC Holdings’ market risk
management strategy is to manage volatility in capital resources, cash
flows and distributable reserves that could be caused by movements
in market parameters. Market risk for HSBC Holdings is monitored by
Holdings ALCO in accordance with its risk appetite statement.

[PAGE 205]

HSBC Holdings uses interest rate swaps and cross-currency interest Pension risk is assessed using an economic capital model that takes
rate swaps to manage the interest rate risk and foreign currency risk into account potential variations in these factors. The impact of these
arising from its long-term debt issues. It also uses forward foreign variations on both pension assets and pension liabilities is assessed
exchange contracts to manage its structural foreign exchange using a one-in-200-year stress test. Scenario analysis and other stress
exposures. tests are also used to support pension risk management, including
the review of de-risking opportunities.
For quantitative disclosures on HSBC Holdings’ interest rate risk in the
banking book see page 215. To fund the benefits associated with defined benefit plans,
sponsoring Group companies, and in some instances employees,
Pension risk management processes
make regular contributions in accordance with advice from actuaries
and in consultation with the plan’s fiduciaries where relevant. These
Our global pensions strategy is to move from defined benefit to
contributions are normally set to ensure that there are sufficient funds
defined contribution plans, where local law allows and it is considered
to meet the cost of the accruing benefits for the future service of
competitive to do so. Our most material defined benefit plans have
active members. However, higher contributions are required when
been closed to new entrants for many years, and the majority
plan assets are considered insufficient to cover the existing pension
(including the largest plan in the UK) are also closed to future accrual.
liabilities. Contribution rates are typically revised annually or once
In defined contribution pension plans, the contributions that HSBC is every three years, depending on the plan.
required to make are known, while the ultimate pension benefit will
The defined benefit plans invest contributions in a range of
vary, typically with investment returns achieved by investment
investments designed to limit the risk of assets failing to meet a
choices made by the employee. While the market risk to HSBC of
plan’s liabilities. Any changes in expected returns from the
defined contribution plans is low, the Group is still exposed to
investments may also change future contribution requirements. In
operational and reputational risk.
pursuit of these long-term objectives, an overall target allocation is
In defined benefit pension plans, the level of pension benefit is established between asset classes of the defined benefit plan. In
known. Therefore, the level of contributions required by HSBC will addition, each permitted asset class has its own benchmarks, such as
vary due to a number of risks, including: stock-market or property valuation indices or liability characteristics.
The benchmarks are reviewed at least once every three to five years
– investments delivering a return below the level required to provide and more frequently if required by local legislation or circumstances.
the projected plan benefits; The process generally involves an extensive asset and liability review.
– the prevailing economic environment leading to corporate failures,
In addition, some of the Group’s pension plans hold longevity swap
thus triggering write-downs in asset values (both equity and debt);
contracts. These arrangements provide long-term protection to the
– a change in either interest rates or inflation expectations, causing relevant plans against costs resulting from pensioners or their
an increase in the value of plan liabilities; and dependants living longer than initially expected. The most sizeable
– plan members living longer than expected (known as longevity plan to do this is the HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme, which holds
risk). longevity swaps covering approximately 50% of the plan’s pensioner
liabilities.
Risk
review

[PAGE 206]

Risk review
Capital risk in 2024
Capital overview
Capital and liquidity adequacy metrics
At
31 Dec 2024 31 Dec 2023
Risk-weighted assets (‘RWAs’) ($bn)
Credit risk 657.9 683.9
Counterparty credit risk 37.7 35.5
Market risk 36.2 37.5
Operational risk 106.5 97.2
Total RWAs 838.3 854.1
Capital on a transitional basis ($bn)
Common equity tier 1 capital 124.9 126.5
Tier 1 capital 144.1 144.2
Total capital 172.4 171.2
Capital ratios on a transitional basis (%)
Common equity tier 1 ratio 14.9 14.8
Tier 1 ratio 17.2 16.9
Total capital ratio 20.6 20.0
Capital on an end point basis ($bn)
Common equity tier 1 (‘CET1’) capital 124.9 126.5
Tier 1 capital 144.1 144.2
Total capital 168.5 167.1
Capital ratios on an end point basis (%)
Common equity tier 1 ratio 14.9 14.8
Tier 1 ratio 17.2 16.9
Total capital ratio 20.1 19.6
Liquidity coverage ratio (‘LCR’)
Total high-quality liquid assets ($bn) 649.2 647.5
Total net cash outflow ($bn) 470.7 477.1
LCR (%)1 138 136
Net stable funding ratio (‘NSFR’)1,2
Total available stable funding ($bn) 1,523.4 1,601.9
Total required stable funding ($bn) 1,064.5 1,162.3
NSFR (%) 143 138
1 We enhanced our liquidity consolidation process in 2Q24 by revising provisions that addressed historical limitations. As our Group LCR and NSFR are reported on
an average basis, the benefit of these changes incrementally increased our LCR and NSFR by circa 3% and 11% during the year, respectively. Compared to year
ended 31 December 2023, the increase in LCR was mainly driven by these enhancements. The associated NSFR increase driven by these changes was partly
offset by higher required stable funding primarily due to a rise in financial investments and derivatives activities.
2 We enhanced our calculation process during 1Q24 and our NSFR comparatives have been restated.
References to EU regulations and directives (including technical The table presents them under the transitional arrangements in CRR II
standards) should, as applicable, be read as references to the UK’s for capital instruments and after their expiry, known as the end point.
version of such regulation or directive, as onshored into UK law under
Regulatory numbers and ratios are presented as at the date of
the European Union (Withdrawal) Act 2018, and as may be
reporting. Small changes may exist between these numbers and
subsequently amended under UK law.
ratios and those submitted in regulatory filings. Where differences are
Capital figures and ratios in the previous table are calculated in significant, we may restate in subsequent periods.
accordance with the regulatory requirements of the Capital
Requirements Regulation and Directive, the CRR II regulation and the
Prudential Regulation Authority (‘PRA’) Rulebook (‘CRR II’).

[PAGE 207]

Own funds disclosure
(Audited) At
31 Dec 2024 31 Dec 2023
Ref* $m $m
Common equity tier 1 capital: instruments and reserves
1 Capital instruments and the related share premium accounts 22,378 22,964
– ordinary shares 22,378 22,964
2 Retained earnings1 138,959 135,614
3 Accumulated other comprehensive income (and other reserves)1 (8,410) (7,195)
5 Minority interests (amount allowed in consolidated CET1) 3,960 3,917
5a Independently reviewed net profits net of any foreseeable charge or dividend 7,184 10,568
6 Common equity tier 1 capital before regulatory adjustments 164,071 165,868
28 Total regulatory adjustments to common equity tier 1 (39,160) (39,367)
29 Common equity tier 1 capital 124,911 126,501
36 Additional tier 1 capital before regulatory adjustments 19,286 17,732
43 Total regulatory adjustments to additional tier 1 capital (70) (70)
44 Additional tier 1 capital 19,216 17,662
45 Tier 1 capital 144,127 144,163
51 Tier 2 capital before regulatory adjustments 29,334 28,148
57 Total regulatory adjustments to tier 2 capital (1,075) (1,107)
58 Tier 2 capital 28,259 27,041
59 Total capital 172,386 171,204
* The references identify lines prescribed in the PRA template, which are applicable and where there is a value.
1 We have updated the classification between components of shareholders’ equity to present ‘Retained Earnings’ in Row 2 and ‘Accumulated other
comprehensive income (and other reserves)’ in Row 3. The comparatives have been aligned.
The CET1 capital ratio increased marginally from 14.8% at – a 0.4 percentage point increase from capital generation, mainly
31 December 2023 to 14.9% at 31 December 2024, reflecting a through regulatory profits and other reserves less dividends and
decrease in RWAs of $15.8bn, partly offset by a decrease in CET1 share buy-backs; and
capital of $1.6bn. The key drivers of the overall rise in our CET1 ratio
– a 0.3 percentage point decrease from the adverse impact of
during the year were:
regulatory deductions and foreign exchange fluctuations on our
– a 0.9 percentage point increase, excluding foreign exchange RWAs and capital.
fluctuations, was primarily driven by a reduction in RWAs through
Our Pillar 2A requirement at 31 December 2024, as per the PRA’s
strategic transactions, and the gain on disposal of our Canadian
Individual Capital Requirement based on a point-in-time assessment,
banking business adjusted for the $0.21 per share special
was equivalent to 2.6% of RWAs, of which 1.5% was required to be
dividend;
met by CET1. Throughout 2024 we complied with the PRA’s
– a 0.9 percentage point reduction excluding foreign exchange regulatory capital adequacy requirements.
fluctuations, owing to higher RWAs mainly driven by organic
balance sheet growth and credit migrations excluding strategic
transactions;
Risk-weighted assets
RWAs by global business
Corporate Total
WPB CMB GBM Centre RWAs
$bn $bn $bn $bn $bn
Credit risk 143.3 299.7 132.6 82.3 657.9
Counterparty credit risk 0.7 0.2 35.2 1.6 37.7
Market risk 1.1 0.9 27.1 7.1 36.2
Operational risk1 36.0 37.1 37.0 (3.6) 106.5
At 31 Dec 20242 181.1 337.9 231.9 87.4 838.3
At 31 Dec 2023 192.9 354.5 218.5 88.2 854.1
1 Operational risk RWAs for HSBC Bank Canada are excluded post the PRA waiver permission granted in October 2024.
2 RWAs balance at 31 December 2024 includes HSBC Argentina operational risk RWAs due to the averaging calculation and will roll off over future reporting
cycles.
Risk
review

[PAGE 208]

Risk review
RWAs by legal entities1
The Holding
Hongkong HSBC HSBC Grupo companies,
HSBC and Shanghai Bank North Financiero shared service
UK HSBC Banking Middle America HSBC HSBC, Other centres and
Bank Bank Corporation East Holdings Bank S.A. trading intra-Group Total
plc plc Limited Limited Inc Canada3 de C.V. entities4 eliminations RWAs
$bn $bn $bn $bn $bn $bn $bn $bn $bn $bn
Credit risk 117.2 71.8 314.3 19.3 60.7 — 23.7 40.7 10.2 657.9
Counterparty credit risk 0.3 19.7 10.9 0.6 3.4 — 0.6 2.2 — 37.7
Market risk2 0.2 26.1 23.0 2.1 2.7 — 0.5 1.3 1.5 36.2
Operational risk3 20.6 20.0 54.6 4.6 7.6 — 4.9 6.5 (12.3) 106.5
At 31 Dec 2024 138.3 137.6 402.8 26.6 74.4 — 29.7 50.7 (0.6) 838.3
At 31 Dec 2023 129.2 131.5 396.7 24.3 72.2 31.9 32.6 59.6 6.7 854.1
1 Balances are on a third-party Group consolidated basis.
2 Market risk RWAs are non-additive across the legal entities due to diversification effects within the Group.
3 Operational risk RWAs for HSBC Bank Canada are excluded post the PRA waiver permission granted in October 2024.
4 RWAs balance at 31 December 2024 includes HSBC Argentina operational risk RWAs due to the averaging calculation and will roll off over future reporting
cycles.
RWA movement by global business by key driver
Credit risk, counterparty credit risk and operational
risk
Corporate Market Total
WPB CMB GBM Centre risk RWAs
$bn $bn $bn $bn $bn $bn
RWAs at 1 Jan 2024 191.6 353.5 196.3 75.2 37.5 854.1
Asset size 11.1 17.3 13.9 2.6 4.5 49.4
Asset quality 1.7 5.4 (0.9) 0.1 — 6.3
Model updates 3.2 0.7 3.5 — — 7.4
Methodology and policy (8.9) (3.2) 0.2 2.8 0.2 (8.9)
Acquisitions and disposals1 (12.3) (26.1) (3.7) 0.3 (6.0) (47.8)
Foreign exchange movements2 (6.4) (10.6) (4.5) (0.7) — (22.2)
Total RWA movement (11.6) (16.5) 8.5 5.1 (1.3) (15.8)
RWAs at 31 Dec 2024³ 180.0 337.0 204.8 80.3 36.2 838.3
1 Balance includes operational risk RWAs for HSBC Bank Canada post the PRA waiver permission granted in October 2024.
2 Credit risk foreign exchange movements in this disclosure are computed by retranslating the RWAs into US dollars based on the underlying transactional
currencies, and other movements in the table are presented on a constant currency basis.
3 RWAs balance at 31 December 2024 includes HSBC Argentina operational risk RWAs due to the averaging calculation and will roll off over future reporting
cycles.
RWA movement by legal entities by key driver1
Credit risk, counterparty credit risk and operational risk
The Holding
Hongkong companies,
and HSBC HSBC Grupo shared
Shanghai Bank North Financiero service
HSBC Banking Middle America HSBC HSBC, Other centres and
UK Bank HSBC Corporation East Holdings Bank S.A. trading intra-Group Market Total
plc Bank plc Limited Limited Inc Canada2 de C.V. entities4 eliminations risk RWAs
$bn $bn $bn $bn $bn $bn $bn $bn $bn $bn $bn
RWAs at 1 Jan 2024 129.0 108.8 369.3 21.5 69.6 31.1 31.9 58.0 (2.6) 37.5 854.1
Asset size 10.2 4.3 15.5 2.5 0.6 — 2.3 11.0 (1.5) 4.5 49.4
Asset quality 1.9 0.5 6.2 (0.8) 0.5 — — (2.0) — — 6.3
Model updates 0.1 0.8 5.3 0.7 0.4 — — 0.1 — — 7.4
Methodology and policy (0.6) 4.5 (11.5) 0.7 0.7 — — (4.6) 1.7 0.2 (8.9)
Acquisitions and
disposals2 — (3.9) 0.1 — — (30.5) — (7.8) 0.3 (6.0) (47.8)
Foreign exchange
movements3 (2.5) (3.5) (5.1) (0.1) (0.1) (0.6) (5.0) (5.3) — — (22.2)
Total RWA movement 9.1 2.7 10.5 3.0 2.1 (31.1) (2.7) (8.6) 0.5 (1.3) (15.8)
RWAs at 31 Dec 2024 138.1 111.5 379.8 24.5 71.7 — 29.2 49.4 (2.1) 36.2 838.3
1 Balances are on a third-party Group consolidated basis.
2 Balance includes operational risk RWAs for HSBC Bank Canada post the PRA waiver permission granted in October 2024.
3 Credit risk foreign exchange movements in this disclosure are computed by retranslating the RWAs into US dollars based on the underlying transactional
currencies, and other movements in the table are presented on a constant currency basis.
4 RWAs balance at 31 December 2024 includes HSBC Argentina operational risk RWAs due to the averaging calculation and will roll off over future reporting
cycles.

[PAGE 209]

RWAs decreased by $15.8bn during the year, mainly due to strategic incremental risk charge due to increased positions, mainly in Asia and
disposals of $47.8bn and foreign currency translation differences of HSBC Bank plc.
$22.2bn, which were partly offset by asset size movements of
$49.4bn. Asset quality
The $6.3bn rise in RWAs was mainly due to unfavourable credit
Asset size
migrations in Asia, including in the Hong Kong commercial real estate
Asset size RWAs increased by $49.4bn, including a $14.6bn rise in sector, which was partly offset by favourable credit risk migrations in
operational risk RWAs driven by an increase in average income. Sri Lanka and Other trading entities. A further RWA increase in HSBC
UK Bank plc was mainly attributed to changes in the loan-to-value mix
CMB RWAs rose by $17.3bn, including a $6.4bn increase in
of our mortgages portfolio.
operational risk RWAs, and additional RWAs contributed by an
increase in corporate lending, mainly in HSBC UK Bank plc and higher Model updates
sovereign exposures in Other trading entities and Asia.
The $7.4bn RWAs increase mainly followed a revision to the definition
GBM RWAs increased by $13.9bn, mainly reflecting an increase in of default in our PD models for exposures to financial institutions, and
operational risk RWAs of $5.5bn, higher securities financing an increase in the post-model adjustments for the Hong Kong models.
exposures in HSBC Bank plc, and mark-to-market movements and
Methodology and policy
organic growth in counterparty credit risk, mainly in Asia. Further
RWA increases were due to higher sovereign exposures in Asia and The $8.9bn decrease in RWAs largely reflected a $7.5bn fall due to
Other trading entities. regulatory changes related to the risk-weighting of residential
mortgages in Hong Kong. Credit risk parameter refinements, mainly in
WPB RWAs increased by $11.1bn, including a $4.2bn rise in
Asia, further contributed to the fall in RWAs.
operational risk RWAs, and due to retail mortgage growth in the US
and HSBC UK Bank plc, and higher sovereign exposures in Other Acquisitions and disposals
trading entities and Asia.
RWAs decreased by $47.8bn, predominantly from the disposal of our
Corporate Centre RWAs increased by $2.6bn, primarily due to lending banking business in Canada, including operational risk RWAs post the
growth in SAB, reflected in Other trading entities. PRA waiver permission granted in October 2024, the sale of our
business in Argentina and the sale of our retail banking operations in
Market risk RWAs increased by $4.5bn, which was mainly attributed
France.
to an increase in stressed value at risk due to higher sensitivities to
interest rate shocks under the stress scenario, and the higher
Leverage ratio
At
31 Dec 2024 31 Dec 2023
$bn $bn
Tier 1 capital (leverage) 144.1 144.2
Total leverage ratio exposure 2,571.1 2,574.8
% %
Leverage ratio 5.6 5.6
Our leverage ratio was 5.6% at 31 December 2024, unchanged from Pillar 3 disclosure requirements
31 December 2023. Leverage exposures decreased primarily due to
strategic disposals and adverse foreign currency translation Pillar 3 of the Basel regulatory framework is related to market
differences, which exceeded the increase in the underlying balance discipline and aims to make financial services firms more transparent
sheet. This was offset by a fall in the tier 1 capital. by requiring publication of wide-ranging information on their risks,
capital and management.
At 31 December 2024, our UK minimum leverage ratio requirement of
3.25% was supplemented by a leverage ratio buffer of 0.9%, which For further details, see our Pillar 3 Disclosures at 31 December 2024, which
consists of an additional leverage ratio buffer of 0.7% and a is expected to be published on or around 19 February 2025 at
countercyclical leverage ratio buffer of 0.2%. These buffers translated www.hsbc.com/investors.
into capital values of $18.0bn and $5.1bn respectively. Liquidity and funding risk in 2024
Regulatory transitional arrangements
Liquidity metrics
for IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’
At 31 December 2024, all of the Group’s material operating entities
We have adopted the regulatory transitional arrangements of the were above the required regulatory minimum liquidity and funding
Capital Requirements Regulation for IFRS 9, including paragraph four levels. Each entity maintains sufficient unencumbered liquid assets to
of article 473a. These allow banks to add back to their capital base a comply with local and regulatory requirements. Each entity maintains
proportion of the impact that IFRS 9 has upon their loan loss a sufficient stable funding profile and is assessed using the NSFR or
allowances. Our capital and ratios are presented under these other appropriate metrics.
arrangements throughout the tables in this section, including the end
In addition to regulatory metrics, we use a wide set of measures to
point figures.
manage our liquidity and funding profile.
Risk
review

[PAGE 210]

Risk review
The Group liquidity and funding position on an average basis is analysed in the following sections.
Operating entities’ liquidity
At 31 Dec 2024
Net
LCR1 HQLA outflows NSFR1
% $bn $bn %
HSBC UK Bank plc (ring-fenced bank)2 190 117 61 154
HSBC Bank plc (non-ring-fenced bank)3 148 138 93 115
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation – Hong Kong branch4 191 145 76 124
HSBC Singapore5 287 32 11 184
Hang Seng Bank 299 57 19 174
HSBC Bank China 191 27 14 147
HSBC Bank USA 167 80 48 127
HSBC Continental Europe 149 82 55 139
HSBC Bank Middle East Ltd – UAE branch 251 14 6 151
HSBC Canada — — — —
HSBC Mexico 164 9 6 125
At 31 Dec 2023
HSBC UK Bank plc (ring-fenced bank)2 201 118 59 158
HSBC Bank plc (non-ring-fenced bank)3 148 132 89 116
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation – Hong Kong branch4 192 147 77 127
HSBC Singapore5 292 26 9 174
Hang Seng Bank 254 52 21 163
HSBC Bank China 170 24 14 139
HSBC Bank USA 172 82 48 131
HSBC Continental Europe 158 83 52 137
HSBC Bank Middle East Ltd – UAE branch 281 13 5 163
HSBC Canada 164 21 13 129
HSBC Mexico 149 8 5 124
1 The LCR and NSFR ratios presented in the above table are based on average values. The LCR is the average of the preceding 12 months. The NSFR is the
average of the preceding four quarters.
2 HSBC UK Bank plc refers to the HSBC UK liquidity group, which comprises five legal entities: HSBC UK Bank plc, Marks and Spencer Financial Services plc,
HSBC Private Bank (UK) Ltd, HSBC Innovation Bank Limited and HSBC Trust Company (UK) Limited, managed as a single operating entity, in line with the
application of UK liquidity regulation as agreed with the PRA.
3 HSBC Bank plc includes overseas branches and special purpose entities consolidated by HSBC for financial statements purposes.
4 The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation – Hong Kong branch represents the material activities of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation
Limited. It is monitored and controlled for liquidity and funding risk purposes as a stand-alone operating entity.
5 HSBC Singapore includes HSBC Bank Singapore Limited and The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation – Singapore branch. Liquidity and funding risk is
monitored and controlled at country level in line with the local regulator’s approval.
Consolidated liquidity metrics
Net stable funding ratio
We manage funding risk based on the PRA’s NSFR rules. The Group’s NSFR at 31 December 2024, calculated from the average of the four
preceding quarters, was 143%.
At1,2
31 Dec 2024 30 Jun 2024 31 Dec 2023
$bn $bn $bn
Total available stable funding ($bn) 1,523 1,544 1,602
Total required stable funding ($bn) 1,064 1,115 1,162
NSFR ratio (%) 143 138 138
1 We enhanced our liquidity consolidation process in 2Q24 by revising provisions that addressed historical limitations. As our Group NSFR is reported on an
average basis, the benefit of these changes incrementally increased our NSFR by circa 11% during the year by reducing required stable funding. This reduction
was partly offset by a rise in financial investments and derivatives activities, resulting in a net 5% increase of NSFR compared with year ended 31 December
2023.
2 We enhanced our calculation process during 1Q24 and our NSFR comparatives have been restated.

[PAGE 211]

Liquidity coverage ratio Sources of funding
At 31 December 2024, the average high-quality liquid assets (‘HQLA‘) Our primary sources of funding are customer current accounts and
held at entity level amounted to $790bn (31 December 2023: savings deposits payable on demand or at short notice. We issue
$795bn). The Group consolidation methodology includes a deduction secured and unsecured wholesale securities to supplement customer
to reflect the impact of limitations in the transferability of entity deposits, meet regulatory obligations and to change the currency mix,
liquidity around the Group. That resulted in an adjustment of $141bn maturity profile or location of our liabilities.
to LCR HQLA and $6bn to LCR inflows on an average basis.
The following ‘Funding sources’ and ‘Funding uses’ tables provide a
We enhanced our liquidity consolidation process in 2Q24 by revising view of how our consolidated balance sheet is funded. In practice, all
the provisions that addressed historical limitations. As Group LCR is the principal operating entities are required to manage liquidity and
reported on an average basis, the benefits of these changes have funding risk on a stand-alone basis.
incrementally increased our LCR by circa 3% during the year by
reducing net outflows. This reduction was partly offset by an organic The tables analyse our consolidated balance sheet according to the
increase in outflows, mostly in Asia, resulting in a net 2% increase of assets that primarily arise from operating activities and the sources of
our LCR compared with year ended 31 December 2023. funding primarily supporting these activities. Assets and liabilities that
do not arise from operating activities are presented as a net balancing
At1 source or deployment of funds.
31 Dec 2024 30 Jun 2024 31 Dec 2023
Funding sources
$bn $bn $bn
High-quality liquid assets (in (Audited)
entities) 790 780 795 2024 2023
Group LCR HQLA 649 646 648 $m $m
Net outflows 471 472 477 Customer accounts 1,654,955 1,611,647
Liquidity coverage ratio (%) 138 137 136 Deposits by banks 73,997 73,163
Adjustment for transfer Repurchase agreements – non-trading 180,880 172,100
restrictions2 (147) (141) (154)
Debt securities in issue 105,785 93,917
1 Group LCR numbers above are based on average values. The LCR is the Cash collateral, margin, settlement accounts and
average of the preceding 12 months. items in course of transmission to other banks 82,732 92,550
2 This includes adjustments made to high-quality liquid assets and inflows in Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale 29,011 108,406
entities to reflect liquidity transfer restrictions. Subordinated liabilities 25,958 24,954
Financial liabilities designated at fair value 138,727 141,426
Liquid assets
Insurance contract liabilities 107,629 120,851
After the $141bn deduction, the average Group LCR HQLA of $649bn Trading liabilities 65,982 73,150
(31 December 2023: $648bn) was held in a range of asset classes and – repos 14,806 12,198
currencies. Of these, 95% were eligible as level 1 (31 December – stock lending 3,525 3,322
2023: 97%). – other trading liabilities 47,651 57,630
Total equity 192,273 192,610
The following tables reflect the composition of the average liquidity Other balance sheet liabilities 359,119 333,903
pool by asset type and currency at 31 December 2024. At 31 Dec 3,017,048 3,038,677
Liquidity pool by asset type1 Funding uses
Liquidity (Audited)
pool Cash Level 12 Level 22 2024 2023
$bn $bn $bn $bn $m $m
Cash and balance at central Loans and advances to customers 930,658 938,535
bank 266 266 — — Loans and advances to banks 102,039 112,902
Central and local government Reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading 252,549 252,217
bonds 352 — 326 26 Cash collateral, margin, settlement accounts and
Regional government public items in course of collection from other banks 78,538 96,253
sector entities 2 — 2 — Assets held for sale 27,234 114,134
International organisation and Trading assets 314,842 289,159
multilateral developments
– reverse repos 16,823 16,575
banks 18 — 18 —
– stock borrowing 8,374 14,609
Covered bonds 8 — 2 6
– other trading assets 289,645 257,975
Other 3 — 1 2
Financial investments 493,166 442,763
Total at 31 Dec 2024 649 266 349 34
Cash and balances with central banks 267,674 285,868
Total at 31 Dec 2023 648 310 317 21
Other balance sheet assets 550,348 506,846
1 Group liquid assets numbers are based on average values. At 31 Dec 3,017,048 3,038,677
2 As defined in EU regulations, level 1 assets means ‘assets of extremely high
liquidity and credit quality’, and level 2 assets means ‘assets of high liquidity
and credit quality’.
Liquidity pool by currency1
.
$ £ € HK$ Other Total
$bn $bn $bn $bn $bn $bn
Liquidity pool at 31 Dec
2024 196 170 113 47 123 649
Liquidity pool at 31 Dec
2023 184 173 112 51 128 648
1 Group liquid assets numbers are based on average values.
Risk
review

[PAGE 212]

Risk review
Wholesale term debt maturity profile
The maturity profile of our wholesale term debt obligations is set out in the following table. The balances in the table are not directly
comparable with those in the consolidated balance sheet because the table presents gross cash flows relating to principal payments and not
the balance sheet carrying value, which includes debt securities and subordinated liabilities measured at fair value.
Wholesale funding cash flows payable by HSBC under financial liabilities by remaining contractual maturities1
Due over
Due over Due over Due over 9 months Due over Due over
Due not 1 month 3 months 6 months but not 1 year 2 years
more but not but not but not more but not but not Due
than more than more than more than than more than more than over
1 month 3 months 6 months 9 months 1 year 2 years 5 years 5 years Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Debt securities issued 14,260 15,011 13,841 10,235 11,644 29,639 62,434 53,814 210,878
– unsecured CDs and CP 5,346 7,803 10,495 6,623 6,829 662 1,787 1,598 41,143
– unsecured senior MTNs 7,528 3,351 1,014 1,269 2,736 21,593 47,236 42,899 127,626
– unsecured senior structured notes 874 1,826 2,258 1,457 1,526 6,055 9,160 6,520 29,676
– secured covered bonds — — — — — — 1,254 — 1,254
– secured asset-backed commercial paper 488 — — — — — — — 488
– secured ABS 24 47 67 64 61 664 520 864 2,311
– others — 1,984 7 822 492 665 2,477 1,933 8,380
Subordinated liabilities — — 1,737 1,030 — 892 2,694 30,349 36,702
– subordinated debt securities — — 1,737 1,030 — 892 2,694 29,471 35,824
– preferred securities — — — — — — — 878 878
At 31 Dec 2024 14,260 15,011 15,578 11,265 11,644 30,531 65,128 84,163 247,580
Debt securities issued 17,620 9,798 14,284 13,226 12,226 20,882 64,010 50,045 202,091
– unsecured CDs and CP 6,400 6,777 7,601 6,429 6,513 1,179 1,073 925 36,897
– unsecured senior MTNs 8,190 1,160 4,365 3,627 3,267 12,903 54,984 41,007 129,503
– unsecured senior structured notes 2,307 1,491 1,617 2,513 1,978 2,924 2,793 5,910 21,533
– secured covered bonds — — — — — — 1,275 — 1,275
– secured asset-backed commercial paper 426 — — — — — — — 426
– secured ABS 22 44 62 58 55 188 861 539 1,829
– others 275 326 639 599 413 3,688 3,024 1,664 10,628
Subordinated liabilities — 2,013 — — — 3,358 4,282 27,234 36,887
– subordinated debt securities — 2,000 — — — 3,358 4,282 25,441 35,081
– preferred securities — 13 — — — — — 1,793 1,806
At 31 Dec 2023 17,620 11,811 14,284 13,226 12,226 24,240 68,292 77,279 238,978
1 Excludes financial liabilities of disposal groups.

[PAGE 213]

Structural foreign exchange risk in 2024
Structural foreign exchange exposures represent net assets or capital investments in subsidiaries, branches, joint arrangements or associates,
together with any associated hedges, the functional currencies of which are currencies other than the US dollar. Exchange differences on
structural exposures are usually recognised in ‘other comprehensive income’.
Net structural foreign exchange exposures
2024
Net investment in Structural foreign Economic Net structural
foreign operations Net exchange hedges – Economic foreign
(excl non- investment exposures (pre- structural FX hedges – equity exchange
controlling interest) hedges economic hedges) hedges1 securities (AT1)2 exposures
Currency of structural exposure $m $m $m $m $m $m
Hong Kong dollars 40,106 (5,841) 34,265 (9,861) — 24,404
Pounds sterling 46,462 (15,024) 31,438 — (1,254) 30,184
Chinese renminbi 35,032 (4,725) 30,307 (1,080) — 29,227
Euros 17,391 (2,013) 15,378 — (1,297) 14,081
Canadian dollars 43 — 43 — — 43
Indian rupees 7,056 (1,973) 5,083 — — 5,083
Mexican pesos 3,991 — 3,991 — — 3,991
Saudi riyals 4,675 — 4,675 — — 4,675
UAE dirhams 5,264 (893) 4,371 (2,543) — 1,828
Malaysian ringgit 3,036 — 3,036 — — 3,036
Singapore dollars 2,405 — 2,405 1,092 (1,089) 2,408
Australian dollars 2,126 — 2,126 — — 2,126
Taiwanese dollars 2,199 (1,015) 1,184 — — 1,184
Indonesian rupiah 1,541 (533) 1,008 — — 1,008
Swiss francs 1,096 (541) 555 — — 555
Korean won 1,204 (756) 448 — — 448
Thai baht 976 (460) 516 — — 516
Egyptian pound 891 — 891 — — 891
Qatari rial 728 (97) 631 (299) — 332
Argentinian peso — — — — — —
Vietnamese dong 769 — 769 — — 769
Others, each less than $700m 4,327 (463) 3,864 — — 3,864
At 31 Dec 181,318 (34,334) 146,984 (12,691) (3,640) 130,653
2023
Hong Kong dollars 39,014 (5,792) 33,222 (7,979) — 25,243
Pounds sterling 46,661 (16,415) 30,246 — (1,275) 28,971
Chinese renminbi 33,809 (3,299) 30,510 (1,066) — 29,444
Euros 15,673 (515) 15,158 — (1,384) 13,774
Canadian dollars 5,418 (1,076) 4,342 — — 4,342
Indian rupees 6,286 (2,110) 4,176 — — 4,176
Mexican pesos 4,883 — 4,883 — — 4,883
Saudi riyals 4,312 — 4,312 — — 4,312
UAE dirhams 4,995 (613) 4,382 (2,761) — 1,621
Malaysian ringgit 2,754 — 2,754 — — 2,754
Singapore dollars 2,345 (224) 2,121 — — 2,121
Australian dollars 2,362 — 2,362 — — 2,362
Taiwanese dollars 2,212 (1,127) 1,085 — — 1,085
Indonesian rupiah 1,535 (512) 1,023 — — 1,023
Swiss francs 1,191 (526) 665 — — 665
Korean won 1,354 (864) 490 — — 490
Thai baht 1,022 — 1,022 — — 1,022
Egyptian pound 959 — 959 — — 959
Qatari rial 834 (215) 619 (299) — 320
Argentinian peso 794 — 794 — — 794
Vietnamese dong 872 — 872 — — 872
Others, each less than $700m 4,386 (487) 3,899 — — 3,899
At 31 Dec 183,671 (33,775) 149,896 (12,105) (2,659) 135,132
1 Represents hedges that do not qualify as net investment hedges for accounting purposes. The SGD position represents the hedge against our SGD AT1
issuance.
2 Represents foreign currency-denominated preference share and AT1 instruments. These are accounted for at historical cost under IFRS Accounting Standards
and do not qualify as net investment hedges for accounting purposes. The gain or loss arising from changes in the US dollar value of these instruments is
recognised on redemption in retained earnings.
For a definition of structural foreign exchange exposures, see page 202.
Risk
review

[PAGE 214]

Risk review
Interest rate risk in the banking book in 2024
Banking net interest income sensitivity
Banking NII Sensitivity analyses the sensitivity of our banking net some wholesale assets and liabilities. However, floors have been
interest income to interest rate shocks. This metric, which was maintained for deposits and loans to customers where this is
sensitivity arising from the use of banking book liabilities to fund
As the market and policy rates move, the degree to which these
trading assets, as well as the currency impacts of vanilla foreign
changes are passed on to customers will vary based on a number of
exchange swaps to optimise cash management across the Group.
factors, including the absolute level of market rates, regulatory and
Banking NII Sensitivity is therefore a more comprehensive measure
contractual frameworks, and competitive dynamics. To aid
than NII Sensitivity which was disclosed previously and is aligned
comparability between markets, we have simplified the basis of
with the presentation of banking net interest income as an alternative
preparation for our disclosure and have used a 50% pass-on
performance measure intended to approximate the Group’s banking
assumption for major entities on certain interest-bearing deposits.
revenue that is directly impacted by changes in interest rates.
Our asset pass-on assumptions are largely in line with our contractual
The following tables set out the assessed impact to a hypothetical
agreements or established market practice, which typically results in
base case projection of our banking NII under an immediate shock of
a significant portion of interest rate changes being passed on.
100bps to the current market-implied path of interest rates across all
currencies on 31 December 2024 (effects in the first, second and
An immediate interest rate rise of 100bps would increase projected
third years). For example, Year 3 shows the impact of an immediate
banking NII by $2.1bn. An immediate interest rate fall of 100bps
rate shock on the banking NII projected for the third year.
would decrease projected banking NII by $2.9bn.
The sensitivities shown represent a hypothetical simulation of the
The sensitivity of banking NII for 12 months as at 31 December 2024
base case banking NII, assuming a static balance sheet (specifically
decreased by $0.7bn in the plus 100bps parallel shock and by $0.5bn
no assumed migration from current account to term deposits), and no
in the minus 100bps parallel shock, when compared with
management actions from Global Treasury. This also incorporates the
31 December 2023. The decline in sensitivities is primarily due to an
effect of interest rate behaviouralisation, hypothetical managed rate
increase in stabilisation activities in line with our strategy.
product pricing assumptions, prepayment of mortgages and deposit
stability. The sensitivity calculations exclude pensions, insurance For further details of measurement of interest rate risk in the banking book,
exposures, and our interest in associates. see page 202.
The sensitivity analysis performed in the case of a down-shock does
not include floors to market rates, and it does not include floors on
Banking NII sensitivity to an instantaneous change in yield curves (12 months) – Year 1 sensitivity by currency
Currency
$ HK$ £ € Other Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m
Change in Jan 2025 to Dec 2025 (based on balance sheet at 31 Dec 2024)
+100bps parallel 572 220 219 301 821 2,133
-100bps parallel (862) (403) (353) (314) (954) (2,886)
Change in Jan 2024 to Dec 2024 (based on balance sheet at 31 Dec 2023)
+100bps parallel 343 411 496 285 1,297 2,832
-100bps parallel (494) (493) (602) (304) (1,460) (3,353)
Banking NII sensitivity to an instantaneous down 100bps parallel change in yield curves – Year 2 and Year 3 sensitivity by currency
Currency
$ HK$ £ € Other Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m
Change in banking NII (based on balance sheet at 31 Dec 2024)
Year 2 (Jan 2026 to Dec 2026) (1,226) (509) (563) (444) (1,333) (4,075)
Year 3 (Jan 2027 to Dec 2027) (1,531) (550) (1,022) (504) (1,449) (5,056)
Change in banking NII (based on balance sheet at 31 Dec 2023)
Year 2 (Jan 2025 to Dec 2025) (1,015) (693) (938) (333) (1,798) (4,777)
Year 3 (Jan 2026 to Dec 2026) (1,289) (761) (1,439) (405) (1,926) (5,820)
Non-trading portfolios
Value at risk of non-trading portfolios
Non-trading portfolios comprise of positions that primarily arise from From 1Q24, we adopted a methodology change to measure non-
the interest rate management of our retail and wholesale banking trading VaR over a 10-day holding period as opposed to 1 day in order
assets and liabilities, financial investments measured at fair value to better reflect longer average time horizons in the management of
through other comprehensive income (‘FVOCI’) or at amortised cost, non-trading portfolios compared with trading portfolios.
and certain exposures arising from our insurance operations.
Comparative data at 31 December 2023 has been restated on a 10-
Value at risk (‘VaR’) of non-trading portfolios is a technique for day basis accordingly, using a scalar approach that results in restated
estimating potential losses on risk positions as a result of movements numbers being approximately three times higher than previously
in market rates and prices over a specified time horizon and to a reported 1-day basis numbers.
given level of confidence. The use of VaR is integrated into the
market risk management of non-trading portfolios to have a complete
picture of risk, complementing risk sensitivity analysis.

[PAGE 215]

Our models are predominantly based on historical simulation that – The use of a 10-day holding period for risk management purposes
incorporates the following features: of non-trading books is only an indication of exposure and not
indicative of the time period required to hedge or liquidate
– historical market rates and prices, which are calculated with
positions.
reference to interest rates, credit spreads and the associated
volatilities; – The use of a 99% confidence level by definition does not take into
account losses that might occur beyond this level of confidence.
– potential market movements that are calculated with reference to
data from the past two years; and Non-trading VaR includes non-trading financial instruments held in
portfolios managed by Global Treasury. The management of interest
– calculations to a 99% confidence level and using a 10-day holding
rate risk in the banking book is described further in ‘Banking net
period.
interest income sensitivity’ on page 212.
Although a valuable guide to risk, VaR is used for non-trading
The interest rate risk on the fixed-rate securities issued by HSBC
portfolios with awareness of its limitations. For example:
Holdings is not included in the Group non-trading VaR. The
– The use of historical data as a proxy for estimating future market management of this risk is described on page 215. Non-trading VaR
moves may not encompass all potential market events, also excludes the equity risk on securities held at fair value and non-
particularly those that are extreme in nature. As the model is trading book foreign exchange risk.
calibrated on the last 500 business days, it does not adjust
instantaneously to a change in market regime.
The daily levels of total non-trading VaR in 2024 are set out in the graph below.
Weekly VaR (non-trading portfolios), 99% 10 day ($m)
1,200
1,000
800
600
400
200
0
-200
-400
-600
Dec-23 Jan-24 Mar-24 Apr-24 May-24 Jun-24 Jul-24 Aug-24 Sep-24 Nov-24 Dec-24
Non-trading total Interest rate Credit spread Diversification
The Group non-trading VaR for 2024 is shown in the table below.
Non-trading VaR, 99% 10 day
(Audited)
Interest rate Credit spread Portfolio diversification1 Total2
$m $m $m $m
Balance at 31 Dec 2024 528.4 246.1 (220.7) 553.8
Average 603.7 315.1 (222.9) 695.8
Maximum 1,000.6 369.1 1,097.6
Minimum 292.1 242.4 408.7
Balance at 31 Dec 2023 549.6 356.7 (329.5) 576.7
Average 494.0 266.1 (201.6) 558.6
Maximum 638.6 368.0 — 709.4
Minimum 344.0 174.5 — 401.5
1 Portfolio diversification is the market risk dispersion effect of holding a portfolio containing different risk types. It represents the reduction in unsystematic
market risk that occurs when combining a number of different risk types – such as interest rate and credit spreads – together in one portfolio. It is measured as
the difference between the sum of the VaR by individual risk type and the combined total VaR. A negative number represents the benefit of portfolio
diversification. As the maximum and minimum occurs on different days for different risk types, it is not meaningful to calculate a portfolio diversification benefit
for these measures.
2 The total VaR is non-additive across risk types due to diversification effects.
The VaR for non-trading activity decreased by $23m from $577m at higher market yields and more volatile historical scenarios from
31 December 2023 to $554m at 31 December 2024 due to the 2022 March 2022. The average portfolio diversification effect between
inflation-driven stress period dropping out of our two-year historical interest rate and credit spread exposure remained broadly stable.
scenario window, decreasing the volatility calibrated by the model Non-trading VaR is managed and controlled through a limit approved
during the second half of the year, largely offset by an increase in the by the Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer for HSBC Holdings.
duration risk of Global Treasury’s portfolios. Prior to this change in The limit was rescaled higher to reflect the change in the basis of
calibration, non-trading VaR peaked at $1,097m during May 2024, preparation detailed above.
driven by an increase in the duration of Global Treasury’s portfolios,
Risk
review

[PAGE 216]

Risk review
Sensitivity of capital and reserves
Global Treasury maintains a portfolio of high-quality liquid assets for our hold-to-collect-and-sell capital risk and is risk managed with a
contingent liquidity and NII stabilisation purposes, which is in part variety of tools, including risk sensitivities and value at risk measures.
accounted for under a hold-to-collect-and-sell business model. This
The table below measures the sensitivity of the value of this portfolio
hold-to-collect-and-sell portfolio, together with any associated
to an instantaneous 100 basis point increase in interest rates, based
derivatives in designated hedge accounting relationships, is
on the risk sensitivity of a shift in value for a 1 basis point (‘bps‘)
accounted for at fair value through other comprehensive income and
parallel movement in interest rates.
has an impact on CET1. The portfolio represents the vast majority of
Sensitivity of hold-to-collect-and-sell reserves to interest rate movements
$m
At 31 Dec 2024
+100 basis point parallel move in all yield curves (3,433)
As a percentage of total shareholders’ equity (1.86)%
At 31 Dec 2023
+100 basis point parallel move in all yield curves (2,264)
As a percentage of total shareholders’ equity (1.22)%
The increase in the sensitivity of the portfolio during 2024 was mainly assessing the expected reduction in valuation of cash flow hedges
driven by an increase in NII stabilisation hedging in line with our due to parallel movements of plus or minus 100bps in all yield curves.
strategy. While this hedging has increased the capital sensitivity of
The following table details the sensitivity of our cash flow hedging
the portfolio it has the effect of further dampening the volatility of our
reserves to the stipulated movements in yield curves at the year end.
banking NII over time and through the cycle. The figures in the table
The sensitivities are indicative and based on simplified scenarios. We
above do not take into account the effects of interest rate convexity.
apply flooring on negative rates in the minus 100bps scenario in this
The portfolio mostly comprises vanilla sovereign bonds in a variety of
assessment. The effect of this flooring is immaterial at the end of
currencies and the primary risk is interest rate duration risk, although
2024.
the portfolio also generates asset swap, credit spread and asset
spread risks that are managed within appetite as part of our risk
The sensitivity of the cash flow hedging reserve increased compared
management framework. A minus 100bps shock would lead to an
with 31 December 2023. The increase was mainly driven by our NII
approximately symmetrical gain.
stabilisation activity. Our exposure to fixed rate pound sterling hedges
continued to be the largest in size and in terms of year-on-year
Alongside our monitoring of the hold-to-collect-and-sell reserve
increase. Hong Kong dollar and euro hedges contributed the majority
sensitivity, we also monitor the sensitivity of reported cash flow
of the rest of the increase in exposure.
hedging reserves to interest rate movements on a yearly basis by
Sensitivity of cash flow hedging reported reserves to interest rate movements
$m
At 31 Dec 2024
+100 basis point parallel move in all yield curves (4,496)
As a percentage of total shareholders’ equity (2.43)%
-100 basis point parallel move in all yield curves 4,500
As a percentage of total shareholders’ equity 2.43%
At 31 Dec 2023
+100 basis point parallel move in all yield curves (3,436)
As a percentage of total shareholders’ equity (1.85)%
-100 basis point parallel move in all yield curves 3,474
As a percentage of total shareholders’ equity 1.87%
Third-party assets in Markets Treasury
Third-party assets in Markets Treasury increased by 2% compared $17bn in ‘Cash and balances at central banks’ largely driven by NII
with 31 December 2023. The net increase of $19bn is partly stabilisation activity. Additionally, a decrease of $22bn in ‘Other’ is
reflective of higher commercial surpluses during the year, with the attributed to the disposal of HSBC Bank Canada assets previously
increase of $69bn in ‘Financial Investments’ and the decrease of classified as held for sale.
Third-party assets in Markets Treasury
2024 2023
$m $m
Cash and balances at central banks 261,284 278,289
Trading assets 163 238
Loans and advances:
– to banks 66,518 78,667
– to customers 743 1,083
Reverse repurchase agreements 47,812 45,419
Financial investments 465,123 396,259
Other 12,232 34,651
At 31 Dec 853,875 834,606

[PAGE 217]

Defined benefit pension plans Sensitivity of banking net interest income
Market risk arises within our defined benefit pension plans to the HSBC Holdings monitors banking NII sensitivity in the first, second
extent that the obligations of the plans are not fully matched by and third years. Banking NII sensitivity includes the impact of AT1
assets with determinable cash flows. instruments as well as vanilla foreign exchange swaps to optimise
cash management. For 2024, we have changed the HSBC Holdings
For details of our defined benefit plans, including asset allocation, see Note disclosure from NII sensitivity to banking NII sensitivity to reflect our
5 on the financial statements, and for pension risk management, see page
internal management of interest rate sensitivity, aligned to the Group
203.
approach (see page 212). Comparative data for the financial year
Additional market risk measures ended 31 December 2023 have been re-presented accordingly.
applicable only to the parent These sensitivities assume that any issuance where HSBC Holdings
has an option to redeem at a future call date is called at that date.
company
The tables below set out the effect on HSBC Holdings’ future
HSBC Holdings monitors and manages foreign exchange risk and interest banking NII of an immediate shock of +/-100bps to the current
rate risk. In order to manage interest rate risk, HSBC Holdings uses the market-implied path of interest rates across all currencies on 31
projected sensitivity of its NII to future changes in yield curves. December 2024.
Foreign exchange risk The banking NII sensitivities shown are indicative and based on
simplified scenarios. An immediate interest rate rise of 100bps would
HSBC Holdings’ foreign exchange exposures derive almost entirely decrease projected banking NII for the 12 months to 31 December
from the execution of structural foreign exchange hedges on behalf 2025 by $156m. Conversely, an immediate fall of 100bps would
of the Group. At 31 December 2024, HSBC Holdings had forward increase projected banking NII for the 12 months to 31 December 2025
foreign exchange contracts of $33.9bn (2023: $33.8bn) to manage by $156m.
the Group’s structural foreign exchange exposures.
Overall the banking NII sensitivity is mainly driven by interest rate
For further details of our structural foreign exchange exposures, see page sensitive liabilities funding equity (non-interest bearing) investments in
211. subsidiaries.
Banking NII sensitivity to an instantaneous change in yield curves (12 months) – Year 1 sensitivity by currency
$ HK$ £ € Other Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m
Change in Jan 2025 to Dec 2025 (based on balance sheet at 31 Dec 2024)
+100bps parallel (194) — 31 7 — (156)
-100bps parallel 194 — (31) (7) — 156
Change in Jan 2024 to Dec 2024 (based on balance sheet at 31 Dec 2023)
+100bps parallel (228) — 34 8 (1) (187)
-100bps parallel 228 — (34) (8) 1 187
Banking NII sensitivity to an instantaneous down 100bps parallel change in yield curves – Year 2 and Year 3 sensitivity by currency
$ HK$ £ € Other Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m
Change in banking NII (based on balance sheet at 31 Dec 2024)
Year 2 (Jan 2026 to Dec 2026) 182 — (36) (24) — 122
Year 3 (Jan 2027 to Dec 2027) 192 — (28) (27) — 137
Change in banking NII (based on balance sheet at 31 Dec 2023) —
Year 2 (Jan 2025 to Dec 2025) 194 — (47) (8) (1) 138
Year 3 (Jan 2026 to Dec 2026) 194 — (44) (29) (3) 118
The figures represent hypothetical movements in banking NII based The sensitivities represent our assessment of the change to a
on projected yield curve scenarios, HSBC Holdings’ current interest hypothetical base case based on a static balance sheet assumption,
rate risk profile and assumed changes to that profile during the next and do not take into account the effect of actions that could be taken
three years. to mitigate this interest rate risk.
Risk
review

[PAGE 218]

Risk review
Market risk
Key risk management processes
Contents
Monitoring and limiting market risk
216 Overview
exposures
216 Market risk management
217 Market risk in 2024 Our objective is to manage and control market risk exposures while
217 Trading portfolios maintaining a market profile consistent with our risk appetite.
218 Market risk balance sheet linkages We use a range of tools to monitor and limit market risk exposures
including sensitivity analysis, VaR and stress testing.
Overview
Sensitivity analysis
Market risk is the risk of an adverse financial impact on trading Sensitivity analysis measures the impact of movements in
activities arising from changes in market parameters such as interest individual market factors on specific instruments or portfolios,
rates, foreign exchange rates, asset prices, volatilities, correlations including interest rates, foreign exchange rates and equity prices.
and credit spreads. Market risk arises from both trading portfolios and We use sensitivity measures to monitor the market risk positions
non-trading portfolios. within each risk type. Granular sensitivity limits are set for trading
desks with consideration of market liquidity, customer demand and
Trading portfolios comprise positions held for client servicing and capital constraints, among other factors.
market-making, with the intention of short-term resale and/or to
hedge risks resulting from such positions. Value at risk
For further details of market risk in non-trading portfolios, see page 212 of (Audited)
VaR is a technique for estimating potential losses on risk positions as
a result of movements in market rates and prices over a specified
Market risk management time horizon and to a given level of confidence. The use of VaR is
integrated into market risk management and calculated for all trading
Key developments in 2024 positions regardless of how we capitalise them. Where we do not
calculate VaR explicitly, we use alternative tools as summarised in
There were no material changes to our policies and practices for the the ‘Stress testing’ section below.
management of market risk in 2024.
Our models are predominantly based on historical simulation that
Governance and structure incorporates the following features:
The following diagram summarises the main business areas where – historical market rates and prices, which are calculated with
trading market risks reside and the market risk measures used to reference to foreign exchange rates, commodity prices, interest
monitor and limit exposures. rates, equity prices and the associated volatilities;
– potential market movements that are calculated with reference to
Risk types Trading risk data from the past two years; and
– Foreign exchange and commodities
– calculations to a 99% confidence level and using a one-day holding
– Interest rates period.
– Credit spreads
The models also incorporate the effect of option features on the
– Equities
underlying exposures. The nature of the VaR models means that an
Global business GBM increase in observed market volatility will lead to an increase in VaR
Risk measure Value at risk | Sensitivity | Stress testing without any changes in the underlying positions.
VaR model limitations
The objective of our risk management policies and measurement
techniques is to manage and control market risk exposures to
Although a valuable guide to risk, VaR is used with awareness of its
optimise return on risk while maintaining a market profile consistent
limitations. For example:
with our established risk appetite.
– The use of historical data as a proxy for estimating future market
Market risk is managed and controlled through limits approved by the
moves may not encompass all potential market events, particularly
Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer. These limits are allocated
those that are extreme in nature. As the model is calibrated on the
across business lines and to the Group’s legal entities. Each major
last 500 business days, it does not adjust instantaneously to a
operating entity has an independent market risk management and
change in the market regime.
control sub-function, which is responsible for measuring, monitoring
and reporting market risk exposures against limits on a daily basis. – The use of a one-day holding period for risk management
Each operating entity is required to assess the market risks arising in purposes of trading books assumes that this short period is
its business and to transfer them either to its local Markets and sufficient to hedge or liquidate all positions.
Securities Services or Markets Treasury unit for management, or to – The use of a 99% confidence level by definition does not take into
separate books managed under the supervision of the local ALCO. account losses that might occur beyond this level of confidence.
The Traded Risk function enforces the controls around trading in
permissible instruments approved for each site as well as changes – VaR is calculated on the basis of exposures outstanding at the close of
that follow the approval of new products. Traded Risk also restricts business and therefore does not reflect intra-day exposures.
trading in the more complex derivative products to only those offices
with appropriate levels of product expertise and control systems.

[PAGE 219]

Risk not in VaR framework Market risk in 2024
The risks not in VaR (‘RNIV’) framework captures and capitalises material
The past year had a busy political agenda, with the November US
market risks that are not adequately covered in the VaR model.
election being the main event. Geopolitics remained prominent amid
ongoing tensions in the Middle East and the Russia-Ukraine war.
Risk factors are reviewed on a regular basis and are either incorporated
Major central banks began their easing cycles in 2024, with the US
directly into the VaR models, where possible, or quantified through either
Federal Reserve cutting its policy rate by 1% since September, while
the VaR-based RNIV approach or a stress test approach within the RNIV
the ECB and some other European central banks implemented rate
framework. While VaR-based RNIVs are calculated by using historical
cuts starting in June. In contrast, the Bank of Japan raised its
scenarios, stress-type RNIVs are estimated on the basis of stress
overnight rate in March, ending a prolonged period of negative
scenarios whose severity is calibrated to be in line with the capital
interest rates and ceasing yield curve control.
adequacy requirements. The outcome of the VaR-based RNIV approach
is included in the overall VaR calculation but excluded from the VaR
Throughout the year, government bond yields generally trended
measure used for regulatory back-testing.
upward, except during the third quarter, largely driven by volatile
inflation figures and shifting central bank expectations. In Europe, the
Stress-type RNIVs include a deal contingent derivatives capital charge
yield spread between France and Germany widened amid
to capture risk for these transactions and a de-peg risk measure to
uncertainties surrounding French fiscal policy following local
capture risk to pegged and heavily-managed currencies.
legislative elections. Global equities reached multiple record highs in
Stress testing the US and Europe, buoyed by strong corporate earnings and positive
sentiment in the technology sector. Global markets rebounded from a
Stress testing is an important procedure that is integrated into our short period of volatility in August, triggered by the unwinding of carry
market risk management framework to evaluate the potential impact on trades due to rising Japanese government bond yields, US recession
portfolio values of more extreme, although plausible, events or concerns, and equity market valuations.
movements in a set of financial variables. In such scenarios, losses can
be much greater than those predicted by VaR modelling. Stress testing In foreign exchange markets, the trend of a strengthening US dollar
and reverse stress testing provide senior management with insights continued against most developed and emerging market currencies.
regarding the ‘tail risk’ beyond VaR. The euro approached parity with the US dollar, while the yen
weakened to multi-decade lows. Credit markets performed positively
Stress testing is implemented at legal entity, regional and overall Group throughout the year, with a more pronounced tightening of high-yield
levels. A set of scenarios is used consistently across all regions within credit spreads compared with investment-grade spreads, despite a
the Group. Market risk stress testing incorporates both historical and broad widening of spreads in August.
hypothetical events. Market risk reverse stress tests are designed to
identify vulnerabilities in our portfolios by looking for scenarios that lead We continued to manage market risk prudently during 2024.
to loss levels considered severe for the relevant portfolio. These Sensitivity exposures and VaR remained within appetite as the
scenarios may be local or idiosyncratic in nature and complement the business pursued its core market-making activity in support of our
systematic top-down stress testing. customers. Market risk was managed using a complementary set of
risk measures and limits, including stress testing and scenario
The risk appetite around potential stress losses for the Group is set analysis.
and monitored against limits.
Back-testing Trading portfolios
We routinely validate the accuracy of our VaR models by back-testing the Value at risk of the trading portfolios
VaR metric against both actual and hypothetical profit and loss.
Hypothetical profit and loss excludes non-modelled items such as fees, Trading VaR predominantly resides within the Markets and Securities
commissions and revenue related to intra-day transactions. Services business. As of 31 December 2024, Trading VaR stood at
$38.3m, down from $52.8m as of 31 December 2023. At the end of
The hypothetical profit and loss reflects the profit and loss that would be December 2024, Trading VaR was mainly driven by exposures to
realised if positions were held constant from the end of one trading day interest rate risk factors from the Global Debt Markets and Global
to the end of the next. This measure of profit and loss does not align Foreign Exchange business lines to facilitate client-driven activity.
with how risk is dynamically hedged, and is therefore not necessarily Trading VaR peaked in March 2024 due to the sensitivity of the
indicative of the actual performance of the business. trading book to interest rates movements, coupled with relatively
large interest rate shocks captured in the VaR scenario window. VaR
The number of hypothetical loss back-testing exceptions, together with a
reduced in the second half of 2024, mainly as a result of some
number of other indicators, is used to assess model performance and to
volatile scenarios rolling off the VaR scenario window.
consider whether enhanced internal monitoring of a VaR model is
required. We back-test our VaR at set levels of our Group entity hierarchy.
During 2024, the Group experienced one back-testing exception on
losses against actual and hypothetical profit and losses, mainly driven
by volatility in certain equity markets.
Risk
review

[PAGE 220]

Risk review
The daily levels of total trading VaR during 2024 are set out in the graph below.
Daily VaR (trading portfolios), 99% 1 day ($m)
100
80
60
40
20
0
-20
-40
-60
-80
Dec-23 Jan-24 Feb-24 Mar-24 Apr-24 May-24 Jun-24 Jul-24 Aug-24 Sep-24 Oct-24 Nov-24 Dec-24
Trading total Interest rate (‘IR’) trading Equity (‘EQ’) trading
Credit spread (‘CS’) trading intent Foreign exchange (‘FX’) trading Diversification
The Group trading VaR for the year is shown in the table below.
Trading VaR, 99% 1 day1
(Audited)
Foreign
exchange and Interest Credit Portfolio
commodity rate Equity spread diversification2 Total3
$m $m $m $m $m $m
Balance at 31 Dec 2024 14.6 34.9 16.3 8.2 (35.7) 38.3
Average 15.2 48.3 14.8 9.9 (35.1) 53.1
Maximum 29.8 78.1 20.5 13.1 83.3
Minimum 6.9 24.8 12.7 6.6 37.0
Balance at 31 Dec 2023 13.4 55.9 15.2 7.2 (38.9) 52.8
Average 16.2 53.9 19.0 11.6 (40.8) 59.8
Maximum 24.6 86.0 27.8 16.5 98.2
Minimum 9.3 25.5 13.4 6.6 34.4
1 Trading portfolios comprise positions arising from the market-making and warehousing of customer-derived positions.
2 Portfolio diversification is the market risk dispersion effect of holding a portfolio containing different risk types. It represents the reduction in unsystematic
market risk that occurs when combining a number of different risk types – such as interest rate, equity and foreign exchange – together in one portfolio. It is
measured as the difference between the sum of the VaR by individual risk type and the combined total VaR. A negative number represents the benefit of
portfolio diversification. As the maximum and minimum occurs on different days for different risk types, it is not meaningful to calculate a portfolio diversification
benefit for these measures.
3 The total VaR is non-additive across risk types due to diversification effects.
The table below shows trading VaR at a 99% confidence level compared with trading VaR at a 95% confidence level at 31 December 2024.
This comparison facilitates the benchmarking of the trading VaR, which can be stated at different confidence levels, with financial institution
peers. The 95% VaR is unaudited.
Comparison of trading VaR, 99% 1 day vs trading VaR, 95% 1 day
Trading VaR, 99% 1 day Trading VaR, 95% 1 day
$m $m
Balance at 31 Dec 2024 38.3 23.4
Average 53.1 33.0
Maximum 83.3 48.9
Minimum 37.0 22.0
Balance at 31 Dec 2023 52.8 35.3
Average 59.8 36.8
Maximum 98.2 53.3
Minimum 34.4 21.0
Market risk balance sheet linkages
The following balance sheet lines in the Group’s consolidated position assets and liabilities are treated as traded risk for the purposes of
are subject to market risk: market risk management. The exceptions primarily arise in Global
Banking where the short-term acquisition and disposal of assets are
Trading assets and liabilities linked to other non-trading-related activities such as loan origination.
The Group’s trading assets and liabilities are in almost all cases
originated by GBM. Other than a limited number of exceptions, these

[PAGE 221]

Derivative assets and liabilities
We undertake derivative activity for three primary purposes: to create VaR give rise to a large proportion of the income included in net
risk management solutions for clients, to manage the portfolio risks income from financial instruments held for trading or managed on a
arising from client business, and to manage and hedge our own risks. fair value basis. Adjustments to trading income such as valuation
Most of our derivative exposures arise from sales and trading adjustments are not measured by the trading VaR model.
activities within GBM. The assets and liabilities included in trading
For information on the accounting policies applied to financial instruments
at fair value, see Note 1.2 on the financial statements.
Climate risk
TCFD
Approach
Contents
We recognise that the physical impacts of climate change and the
219 Overview transition to a net zero economy can create significant financial risks
220 Climate risk management for companies, investors and the financial system. HSBC may be
affected by climate risks either directly or indirectly through our
221 Embedding our climate risk approach
relationships with customers, which could result in both financial and
223 Insights from climate scenario analysis
non-financial impacts.
Our climate risk approach aims to effectively manage the material
Overview
climate risks that could impact our operations, financial performance
and stability, and reputation. It is informed by the evolving
Our climate risk approach identifies two primary drivers of climate
expectations of our regulators.
risk:
We continue to develop our approach and climate risk capabilities
– physical risk, which arises from the increased frequency and
across our businesses, by prioritising sectors, portfolios and
severity of extreme weather events, such as hurricanes and
counterparties with the highest impacts, and recognise that this is a
floods, or chronic gradual shifts in weather patterns or rises in the
long-term iterative process. This includes increasing coverage and
sea level; and
incorporating more mature data, climate analytics, frameworks and
– transition risk, which arises from the process of moving to a net tools, and responding to emerging industry best practice and climate-
zero economy, including changes in government policy and related regulations.
legislation, technology, market demand, and reputational
This also necessitates reflecting on how climate risk continues to
implications triggered by a change in stakeholder expectations,
evolve in the real world, and improving how we embed climate risk
action or inaction.
factors into strategic planning, transactions and decision making
In addition, we have also identified the following thematic issues across our businesses. For example, our mergers and acquisitions
related to climate risk, which are most likely to materialise in the form process considers potential climate and sustainability-related targets,
of reputational, regulatory compliance and litigation risks: net zero transition plans and climate strategy, and how this relates to
HSBC.
– net zero alignment risk, which arises from the risk of HSBC failing
to meet its net zero ambition or failing to meet external Our climate risk approach is aligned to our Group-wide risk
expectations related to net zero; and management framework and three lines of defence model, which
sets out how we identify, assess and manage our risks. For further
– the risk of greenwashing, which arises from the act of knowingly
details of the three lines of defence framework, see page 129.
or unknowingly making inaccurate, unclear, misleading or
unsubstantiated claims regarding sustainability to our
stakeholders.
The tables below provide an overview of the climate risk drivers and thematic issues considered within HSBC’s climate risk approach.
Climate risk – risk drivers
Details Potential impacts Time horizons
Physical Acute Increased frequency and severity of weather events causing
disruption to business operations.
– Decreased real estate
Chronic Longer-term shifts in climate patterns (e.g. sustained higher
values or stranded assets.
temperatures, sea level rise, shifting monsoons or chronic heat
waves). – Decreased household
income and wealth. Short term
Transition Policy and legal Mandates on, and regulation of products and services and/or
policy support for low-carbon alternatives. Litigation from parties – Increased costs of legal Medium term
who have suffered loss and damage from climate impacts. and compliance. Long term
– Increased public scrutiny.
Technology Replacement of existing products with lower emissions options.
– Decreased profitability.
End-demand (market) Changing consumer demand from individuals and corporates.
– Lower asset performance.
Reputational Increased scrutiny following a change in stakeholder perceptions
of climate-related action or inaction.
Risk
review

[PAGE 222]

Risk review
Climate risk – thematic issues
Net zero Net zero ambition Failing to set or adapt our net zero ambition and broader business strategy in alignment with key stakeholder
alignment risk risk expectations, latest scientific understanding and commercial objectives.
Net zero Failing to meet our net zero ambition due to taking insufficient or ineffective actions, or due to the actions of clients,
execution risk suppliers and other stakeholders or due to other external factors.
Net zero reporting Failing to report emissions baselines and targets, and performance against these accurately due to data, methodology
risk and model limitations.
Risk of Firm Making inaccurate, unclear, misleading or unsubstantiated claims in relation to our sustainability commitments and
greenwashing targets, as well as the reporting of our performance towards them.
Product Making inaccurate, unclear, misleading or unsubstantiated claims in relation to products or services offered to clients
that have stated sustainability objectives, characteristics, impacts or features.
Client Making inaccurate, unclear, misleading or unsubstantiated claims as a consequence of our relationships with clients or
transactions we undertake with them, where their sustainability commitments or related performance are
misrepresented or are not aligned to our own commitments.
Our annual climate risk materiality assessment helps us to In addition to this assessment, we also consider climate risk in our
understand how climate risk may impact HSBC’s risk taxonomy. emerging risk reporting and scenario analysis (for further details, see
The assessment considers short-term (up to 2026), medium-term ‘Top and emerging risks’ on page 39).
(2027-2035) and long-term (2036-2050) periods. The table below
provides a summary of how climate risk may impact a subset of
HSBC’s principal risks.
Other financial
and non-
Regulatory financial risk
Climate risk drivers Credit risk Traded risk Reputational risk1 compliance risk1 Resilience risk types
Physical risk u u u u
Transition risk u u u u u u
1 Our climate risk approach identifies thematic issues such as net zero alignment risk and the risk of greenwashing, which are most likely to materialise in the
form of reputational, regulatory compliance and litigation risks.
Climate risk management
Key developments in 2024 The ESG Committee has oversight of ESG strategy, policy, material
commitments and external disclosure. It is co-chaired by the Group
Our climate risk programme continues to support the development of CEO and the Group Chief Sustainability Officer.
our climate risk management capabilities. The following outlines key
The Group Reputational Risk Committee provides recommendations
developments in 2024:
and advice on significant reputational risk matters with impacts
– We have started to enhance our approach to managing net zero across the Group.
alignment risk in our wholesale portfolio, through developing
The Environmental Risk Steering Meeting (formerly the
portfolio steering capabilities and revenue assessments.
Environmental Risk Oversight Forum) provides oversight of
– We enhanced our approach to assessing the impact of climate environmental risk and the risk of greenwashing. Equivalent forums
change on capital, focusing on credit, market and operational risk. have been established at a regional level.
– We enhanced our internal climate scenario analysis, including
The Group Risk Management Meeting and the Group Risk
through improvements to input data and models (e.g. for the
Committee receive regular updates on our climate risk profile and the
power and utilities sector). For further details of scenario analysis,
progress of our climate risk programme.
see page 223.
– We enhanced our approach to managing and mitigating the risk of For further details of the Group’s ESG governance structure, see page 74.
greenwashing.
Risk appetite
– We developed climate risk guidelines for relationship managers to
Our climate risk appetite forms part of the Group’s risk appetite
further embed climate risk considerations into credit risk
statement and supports the business in delivering our net zero
assessments.
ambition effectively and sustainably.
While we have made progress, further work remains, including the
Our climate risk appetite statement is approved and overseen by the
need to develop additional metrics and tools to measure our
Board. Climate risk indicators are reported on a quarterly basis for
exposure to climate-related risks.
oversight by the Group Risk Management Meeting and the Group Risk
Governance and structure Committee.
Policies, processes and controls
The Board takes overall supervisory responsibility for our ESG
strategy, overseeing executive management in developing the We continue to integrate climate risk into policies, processes and
approach, execution and associated reporting. controls across many areas of our organisation, and we will continue
to update these as our climate risk management capabilities mature
The Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer is the senior manager
over time.
responsible for the management of climate risk under the UK Senior
Managers Regime, holding overall accountability for the Group’s For further details of how we manage climate risk across our global
climate risk programme. businesses, see page 60.
The Sustainability Working Group, established in 4Q24, oversees and
provides guidance on the Group-wide medium and longer-term
sustainability strategy.

[PAGE 223]

Embedding our climate risk approach
The table below provides further details of how we have embedded the management of climate risk across key risk types. For further details of
our internal scenario analysis, see ‘Insights from climate scenario analysis’ on page 223.
Risk type Our approach
Wholesale We have metrics in place to monitor the exposure of our wholesale corporate lending portfolio to six high transition risk sectors, as shown in the
credit risk below table. As at 31 December 2024, the overall exposure to the six high transition risk sectors was 18% of total gross carrying amount of
wholesale loans and advances. These disclosures cover the whole of the value chain of the sector. The sector classifications are based on
internal HSBC definitions and can be judgemental in nature. We use publicly available data as well as internal data to determine the appropriate
sector. The classification of our clients into sectors is performed with inputs from subject matter experts. The sector classifications are subject
to the remediation of ongoing data quality challenges and continuous improvement of our ongoing processes. The data will continue to be
enhanced and refined in future years.
Our relationship managers engage with our key wholesale customers, including those in higher transition risk sectors, through a transition
engagement questionnaire (‘TEQ’). In 2024, the TEQ was expanded to cover all geographies. The TEQ helps to gather information and assess
our wholesale customers’ business model alignment to a net zero transition and their exposure to physical and transition risks. We use the
responses to the questionnaire to risk-assess our key wholesale customers.
Our credit policies require that relationship managers comment on climate risk factors in credit applications for new money requests and annual
credit reviews. Our credit policies also require manual credit risk rating overrides if climate is deemed to have a material impact on credit risk
under 12 months if not already captured under the original credit risk rating.
Key developments to our framework in 2024 included the expansion of the TEQ, as set out above, and additionally the development of climate
risk guidelines for relationship managers to further embed climate risk considerations into credit risk assessments.
Key challenges for further embedding climate risk into credit risk management relate to the availability of adequate physical risk data to assess
impacts on our wholesale customers.
Wholesale loan exposure to high transition risk sectors at 31 December 2024
Construction,
Contracting & Metals Oil Power
Building and and and Total
Units Automotive Chemicals Materials5 mining gas utilities 2024
Wholesale loan exposure as a proportion of
total wholesale loans and advances1,2,3,4 % 4 2 3 2 3 4 18
1 Percentages shown in the table also include green and other sustainable finance loans, which support the transition to the net zero economy.
The methodology for quantifying our exposure to high transition risk sectors and the transition risk metrics will evolve over time as more data
becomes available and is incorporated in our risk management systems and processes. We are aiming to develop the appropriate systems,
data and processes to provide enhanced disclosures in future years.
2 Counterparties are allocated to the high transition risk sectors via a two-step approach. Firstly, where the main business of a group of
connected counterparties is in a high transition risk sector, all lending to the group is included in one high transition risk sector irrespective of
the sector of each individual obligor within the group. Secondly, where the main business of a group of connected counterparties is not in a
high transition risk sector, only lending to individual obligors in the high transition risk sectors is included. The main business of a group of
connected counterparties is identified by the industry that generates the majority of revenue within a group. Customer revenue data utilised
during this allocation process is the most recent readily available and will not always align to our own reporting period.
3 The six high transition risk sectors make up 18% of total gross carrying amount of wholesale loans and advances to banks and customers of
$596bn. Amounts include assets held for sale.
4 The sectors used to monitor the wholesale corporate lending portfolio set out in the table are different to the scope of sectors we focus on for
financed emissions targets and reporting. The latter focus on the most carbon-emissive sectors, and the parts of the value chain where we
believe the majority of emissions are produced to help reduce double counting. These sectors are set out within 'Financed emissions' section
on page 48.
5 Construction, Contracting & Building Materials has been renamed from Construction & Building Materials. The name has been revised to
clarify that parties who build assets for end clients, investors and landowners, which should be included in this sector for their associated
construction risks.
Retail credit Climate risk may impact retail credit risk through an increase in credit losses on our global retail mortgage portfolio, primarily due to the impact of
risk physical risk. Our current climate assessment, in line with last year’s assessment, indicates that our retail mortgage portfolio remains resilient to
climate risk, with impact severity muted at a portfolio level given that our book has diversified property locations, with insurance coverage being
a key loan covenant. Our retail credit risk mortgage policy requires that every mortgage market conducts an annual review of their climate risk
management framework, to ensure they remain fit for purpose. Within our mortgage portfolios, properties or areas with potentially heightened
physical risk are identified and assessed locally with exposure monitored using risk indicators. A reduction in property value, higher insurance
costs and insurance availability are potential future negative financial impacts for properties with higher physical risk.
UK retail mortgage book
The UK is our largest mortgage market, and as of November 2024, made up 46.7% of our global mortgage portfolio. Our ESG Data Pack
includes our climate risk exposures for this portfolio across regions. The maturity profile of the UK mortgage book shows that the average
remaining contractual term in the UK is 21.8 years. However, with some customers undertaking refinancing options during this term, the
average term of the mortgage can be reduced to between five and eight years. This means our strategic approach to climate risk considers both
present day risk and long-term forward-looking risk, given that customers may choose to remain with us over the lifespan of the loan. Please see
the result of our climate scenario analysis on page 226.
Physical risk
For the UK mortgage book, flood data is sourced from a third-party data provider, and considers the UK only, covering present day risk from tidal,
river and surface water/flash flooding baselined to 2021. A flood risk rating score of 0-100 is provided with 100 being highest risk. Flood risk
scores are based on the average annual loss generated using flood hazard frequency, flood depths and based on the probability of flooding
events occurring. For the UK mortgage book, flood data is available for 93.7% of the mortgage book of which 0.9% is at a very high risk of
flooding, with 2.7% of the book at a high risk of flooding. Geographically, by lending balances, our highest risk exposures are the Greater London
and South-East regions. During 2024 we changed our flood risk classification of very high risk to align to the provider’s flood score bands. The
postcode data used in the regional flood table has also been refined to incorporate a more granular approach. This has helped to aid the regional
allocation and as a result the 2023 data has been restated to reflect this.
Risk
review

[PAGE 224]

Risk review
Risk type Our approach
Retail credit Transition risk
risk We monitor the energy performance certificate (‘EPC’) ratings of individual properties from A (highest efficiency) through to G (least efficient) as
(continued) EPCs are commonly used as an indicator of transition risk in the UK mortgage book. All UK rental properties must have a minimum EPC rating of
E. It is broadly expected that the rental market will need to transition all rented properties to an EPC rating of C by 2030. We track EPC ratings
for both owner occupied (‘OO’) and buy to let (‘BTL’), which are 96.6% of the portfolio and 3.4% of the portfolio by lending value, respectively.
The EPC profile is broadly improving (to higher bands) but is evolving slowly, and the pace is dependent on regulation. Where we do not hold a
current EPC, we have included expired EPCs for 2024. EPCs are a reliable proxy as energy efficiency ratings gradually improve over time.
UK residential mortgages tenor (remaining mortgage term by balance ($m)) as at 31 December 20241
Tenor Remaining mortgage balance
($m)
<1 year 357
1 to 5 years 3,589
>5 years 159,452
Weighted average of remaining mortgage term (years) 21.8
There has been an increase observed across the market in the number of people seeking new mortgages of up to 35 years or more due to rising house
prices, higher interest rates and cost of living challenges although the average life of an HSBC mortgage loan is approximately between five and eight
years due to refinancing. Despite this, our strategic approach to climate risk considers present day and long-term risk given customers may remain on
our book for the whole loan term.
For further details of flood risk and the EPC breakdown of our UK retail mortgage portfolio, see our ESG Data Pack at www.hsbc.com/esg.
1 The table includes instances where individual properties have multiple associated accounts and mortgage balances. These are aggregated to a
property level and the longest term remaining is taken as the tenor. UK mortgage balances presented here are not directly reconcilable to
other tables in the document due to differences in the basis of preparation.
Treasury Climate risk may impact Treasury risk through increased regulatory requirements and from changes to customer behaviours, which may result in
risk increased deposit outflows.
As part of our ICAAP, we assess the impact of climate change on capital, focusing on credit risk, market risk and operational risk and perform
sensitivity analysis on our Internal Capital Planning Buffer.
As part of our ILAAP, we assess how climate risk could impact the Group liquidity position. As part of our Internal Climate Scenario Analysis
(‘ICSA’), we have developed an exploratory scenario to understand the impact of a potential greenwashing event on our deposits. For further
details, please see page 224.
In October 2024 we published our Green Financing Framework, in alignment with the International Capital Market Association Green Bond
Principles. This framework promotes transparency, forming part of our sustainability strategy and helping to further our aim of supporting our
clients in transitioning to a net zero future.
Pension risk
Climate risk could result in additional costs within our defined benefit pension plans, due to changes in the pension plans’ investment
performance or through having to meet evolving regulatory requirements.
Our global policies on the oversight of pension investments explicitly reflect climate considerations. Training has been provided to local
management on how to consider ESG risks in pension investments. We also conduct an annual exercise to estimate the exposure of our largest
pension plans to climate risk.
Insurance risk
Climate risk could result in losses on our insurance assets due to changes in macroeconomic parameters.
We develop an annual plan to support the management of climate risk. This plan includes enhancing our stress test modelling capabilities to
assess the solvency resilience of our insurance entities under prescribed climate scenarios.
Traded risk Climate risk may result in trading losses due to increases in market volatility and widening spreads from the macro and microeconomic impacts
of transition and physical risk.
We have implemented climate risk limits in global and regional trading mandates to monitor exposure to climate-sensitive sectors and countries
across different asset classes in the Markets and Securities Services (‘MSS‘) business.
Our market risk policies include specific climate risk control requirements, which ensure that our climate risk limits and utilisations are monitored
in the same way as market and traded credit risk exposures.
We conduct monthly stress testing to understand the vulnerabilities of our trading portfolio to various climate scenarios, which are refined on an
annual basis, with the results reported to global and regional senior management.
Reputational We manage the reputational impact of climate risk through our broader reputational risk framework, supported by our sustainability risk policies
risk and metrics.
Our sustainability risk policies form part of our broader risk management framework and are important mechanisms for managing risks, including
delivering our net zero ambition. Our thermal coal phase-out and energy policies aim to drive down greenhouse gas emissions while supporting
a just transition.
Our global network of sustainability risk managers provides local policy guidance to relationship managers for the oversight of policy compliance,
and in support of implementation across our wholesale banking activities. For further details of our sustainability risk policies, see page 61.
We have developed risk appetite metrics to monitor our performance against our financed emissions targets. For further details of our targets,
see page 52.
Regulatory Regulatory Compliance is responsible for the oversight and management of climate-related risks that could cause breaches of our regulatory
compliance duties to customers and inappropriate market conduct. We have updated our policies to incorporate considerations for ESG and climate risks,
risk particularly in relation to new and ongoing product management, sales outcomes, and product marketing.
To support our key policies, we have also enhanced the underlying control frameworks and processes. This includes the integration of
greenwashing risk and controls considerations in the design of new products and changes to them, as well as in relation to marketing materials.
From a product sales perspective, we have established key control principles, encompassing the sales journey design, training and competence,
supervision, sales quality, and governance.
We operate an ESG and climate risk working group tasked with tracking and monitoring the integration of ESG and climate risk stewardship
across our operations. This group also monitors regulatory and legislative developments related to the ESG and climate agenda.

[PAGE 225]

Risk type Our approach
Resilience Resilience risks may potentially crystallise through physical climate risk impacts to our buildings supporting service provision, or through physical
risk and/or transition disruption to our third-party supply chain relationships.
We have developed metrics to assess how physical risk may impact our critical properties and to monitor progress against our own operations’
net zero ambitions.
Our resilience risk policies are subject to continuous improvement to remain relevant to evolving climate risks.
Model risk Model risk in the ESG context refers to the uncertainties and complexities inherent in the modelling of the financial impact translation of climate-
related changes and scenarios.
Climate risk models are used for climate scenario analysis, risk management, and emissions reporting among other use cases. Climate risk
modelling is at a nascent stage, with challenges – including limitations in data availability, consistency and quality – shared across the industry.
We have developed model risk procedures that set out the minimum control requirements for identifying, measuring and managing model risk
for climate-related models. All the identified climate-related models are subject to HSBC’s model lifecycle controls and policy.
Financial Climate risk impacts financial reporting risk through increased reporting requirements.
reporting The scope of financial reporting risk includes oversight of the accuracy and completeness of ESG and climate reporting. Our risk appetite
risk statement states that HSBC has no appetite for material errors in ESG disclosures in our key markets, balanced with the evolving requirements
and data availability.
In addition, our internal controls incorporate requirements for addressing the risk of misstatement in ESG and climate reporting. To support this,
a framework is used to provide guidance on control implementation over ESG and climate reporting and disclosures, which includes areas such
as process and data governance, and risk assessment.
Challenges
Key challenges include: – industry-wide data gaps on customer emissions and transition plan
and methodology gaps, which limit our ability to assess transition
– the diverse range of internal and external data sources and data
risks accurately; and
structures needed for climate-related reporting, which introduces
data accuracy and reliability risks; – limitations in our management of net zero alignment risk due to
known and unknown factors, including the limited accuracy and
– data limitations on customer assets and supply chains, and
reliability of data, emerging methodologies, and the need to
methodology gaps, which hinder our ability to assess physical
develop new tools to better inform decision making.
risks accurately;
Insights from climate scenario analysis
Climate scenario analysis supports our strategy by assessing our From a financial and capital planning perspective, we use climate
potential exposures to risks and vulnerabilities under a range of scenario analysis to support the Group’s internal capital adequacy
climate scenarios. It is one of the key tools used to support the assessment process (‘ICAAP’) to understand the amount of capital
evaluation of portfolios in line with our net zero ambition. the Group should hold to meet identified climate risks, including
integration of climate impacts into the Group’s internal stress testing
The scenarios developed for climate scenario analysis are designed to
exercises. In addition, it informs strategic planning by providing
examine HSBC’s financial performance and capital resilience across a
insights on the size and timing of financial impacts, and IFRS 9 loss
wide range of potential climate outcomes. They are sufficiently
provisioning to ensure climate risks are adequately provisioned for in
diverse to enable HSBC’s key physical and transition risk
our balance sheet, such as expected credit losses (‘ECL’).
vulnerabilities to be explored. For further details about these risks,
see ‘Overview under Climate risk’ on page 219. Climate scenario analysis also supports portfolio steering frameworks
set up to help shape our Global Businesses strategy to meet net zero
The analysis supports our approach to supporting our clients in the
ambitions. Portfolio steering has been developed to enable the Group
transition to net zero through assessing, where available, client level
to manage sector portfolios in line with its net zero by 2050 ambition,
financial and credit risk metrics, and identifying where further analysis
while managing risks and capturing commercial opportunities. This
and climate risk focus is required.
enables HSBC to manage financed emissions within our appetite at
portfolio level.
From a risk management perspective, it enhances our understanding
of the various transition and global warming pathways that may
Climate scenario analysis supports the Group to assess the impact of
unfold and their plausibility, and informs how we manage implications
our net zero ambitions on our revenue and profitability to help
to credit risk and revenues.
strengthen our understanding of business model risk, and supports
building the organisation’s awareness of climate change risk,
To meet our global regulatory needs, we produced several climate
informing our climate risk appetite.
stress tests for regulators around the world, including the Hong Kong
Monetary Authority (‘HKMA’). We continue to enhance our climate
Our climate scenarios
scenario analysis exercises so that we can have a more
comprehensive understanding of climate headwinds, risks and
Our 2024 scenarios considered the key regions in which we operate
opportunities to support our strategic planning, actions and risk
and were designed to assess the impact on our balance sheet across
management.
three distinct periods: short term up to 2026; medium term from
2027 to 2035; and long term from 2036 to 2050.
Use of climate scenario outputs to
Building on prior years, the 2024 climate scenario analysis exercise
support how we assess our climate
benefited from new scenarios, including: the introduction of a new
resilience Below 2 Degrees scenario that is aligned with the Paris Agreement
goal of limiting global warming to below 2 degrees by the end of the
As we navigate the transition to net zero, climate scenario analysis is century; and a bespoke near-term Severe Climate Stress scenario;
used to support core banking processes such as client-facing and from updated climate scenario assumptions, which include
activities, finance activities and risk management. increased sector and geographical granularity for all scenarios.
The 2024 climate scenarios range from a combination of highest
physical risk to highest transition risk as follows:
Risk
review

[PAGE 226]

Risk review
– Downside Physical Risk scenario: with significant global warming – Below 2 Degrees scenario: a Paris Agreement-aligned scenario
and physical risk events, assumes climate action is limited to where net zero is achieved, but beyond the 2050 scenario horizon,
currently implemented governmental policies, new as it assumes an orderly and gradual rise in the stringency of
decarbonisation policies fail to get introduced and global warming climate policies over time.
continues.
– Delayed Transition Risk scenario: in which action is delayed until
– Severe Climate Stress scenario: a near term disorderly climate 2030 but is then stringent and rapid enough to meet net zero by
action, triggered by unprecedented global weather events that 2050, accentuating disorderly transition risks.
lead to a short, sharp economic recession. In this scenario,
We have chosen these scenarios to provide a holistic view that
extreme physical events pivot the public view on climate and the
supplements the Group’s current and future strategic thinking. The
transition to net zero accelerates. This extreme stress scenario is
2024 climate scenarios are underpinned by well-established industry
used to test HSBC’s capital resilience to extreme and very unlikely
bodies such as the Network for Greening Finance Phase IV, the
events, combining downside climate and macroeconomic risks
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (‘IPCC’) and International
with a horizon ending in 2030.
Energy Agency (‘IEA’), which are further enriched for additional
– Current Commitments scenario: assumes a slower-than-required granularity, ensuring consistency with industry-recognised work and
transition to a net zero economy, reflective of the current pace of reflecting the latest climate policy and economic outlook.
transition, which assumes that climate action is limited to current
governmental committed policies, including already implemented
actions. This scenario helps us determine the actions we need to
take to reach our net zero ambition while operating in a world that
is not on a net zero by 2050 pathway.
Characteristics of our scenarios
+Physical Risk Transition Risk+
Scenarios
Downside Severe Climate Current Delayed
Below 2 Degrees
Physical Risk Stress Commitments Transition Risk
Rise in global
Scenario
temperatures by 2100 (vs 4.2°C N/A 2.4˚c 1.7˚c 1.6˚c
outcomes
pre-industrial levels)
End of horizon 2050 2030 2050 2050 2050
Underlying Implemented Rapid & disorderly All currently pledged Gradually rising Rapid & disorderly
Global climate actions
assumptions policies only transition policies stringency of policies transition
based on Assumed pace of
global technology change and Slow change Accelerated progress Limited progress Moderate change Accelerates from
averages adoption 2030
Assumed socioeconomic
Very high Very high Moderate High Very high
impact
Assumed carbon price 2030 2050 2030 2030 2050 2030 2050 2030 2050
($/tCO 2 ) 9 8 326 30 78 46 136 30 558
Scenario risk Climate Physical p Higher p Higher u Moderate q Lower q Lower
characteristics risk Transition q Lower p Higher u Moderate p Higher p Higher
Group outputs and our methodology
Climate scenario analysis allows us to model how different potential For our retail mortgage portfolio, our analysis focused on key regions
climate pathways may impact the resilience of our customers and our and physical risk factors, including property locations, perils and
portfolios. insurance coverage.
Our models continue to incorporate a range of climate-specific The internal climate scenario analysis exercise showed that losses
metrics that could potentially impact our customers, including are influenced by their exposure to a variety of climate risks under
expected production volumes, revenue, costs and capital different climate scenarios.
expenditure.
When assessing our long-term scenarios, climate-related losses are
We assess how these metrics interplay with economic factors, such expected to remain minimal in the short term and likely to increase in
as carbon prices, which represent the cost effects of climate-related the medium and longer time horizon, driven by the transition to a net
policies that aim to discourage carbon-emitting activities and zero economy and greater physical risk impacts.
encourage low-carbon solutions. The expected result of higher carbon
Under the defined climate scenarios, transition risk impacts are
prices is a reduction in emissions as high-emission activities become
predominantly driven by credit risk losses and are expected to create
uneconomical.
a drag on the Group’s profitability across all scenarios. In the Below 2
We analyse how climate risks impact principal risk types within our Degrees scenario, we expect to see an increase in projected credit
organisation, including credit and traded risks, non-financial risks and losses that materialise in the medium term if early action to transition
pension risk. While the following sections focus primarily on credit to net zero is taken. Credit losses are projected to increase in the
risk, we also set out how we continue to enhance and embed medium to long term if the transition to net zero is delayed, which
impacts from traded risk, pension risk and non-financial risks. was underlined within the Delayed Transition scenario, where climate
action begins later and is therefore expected to be more rapid and
For our wholesale lending portfolio, the scope of our 2024 analysis disruptive for our customers who will have less time to restructure
prioritised high-emitting sectors, and we focused on delving deeper their business models and reduce their carbon emissions.
into a selection of high transition risk sectors. We have enhanced our
climate models for the power and utilities and automotive sectors, The risks and opportunities will need to be carefully balanced, and by
while regional deep dives focused on select high risk and material building a more climate-resilient balance sheet, we can reduce
sectors. The financial metrics used in our models included credit impairment risks and improve longer-term stability.
rating and client cashflow impacts to derive ECLs and risk-weighted Increased lending opportunities exist during an accelerated transition
assets (‘RWAs’), emissions and balance sheet impacts. period such as those expected in the Below 2 Degrees, Delayed

[PAGE 227]

Transition Risk and Severe Climate Stress scenarios, noting that relatively lower projected climate-related losses on a consistent basis,
these scenarios also experience the risk of heightened impairments which is highly dependent on the assumption of continued
in the latter stages of their time horizons. government support and commitment to the execution of their
complex transition plans.
Modelling limitations
In the case of the Severe Climate Stress scenario, we observed that
We continue to look for ways of enhancing our methodology to
impacts would be more severe and focused than other climate
improve the effectiveness of our climate scenario analysis by
scenarios in the short- to medium-term. These impacts were driven
incorporating lessons learnt from previous exercises and feedback
by the underlying severity of the scenario, particularly due to the
from key stakeholders, including regulators. There are industry-wide
sharp increase in stricter climate policies and therefore carbon prices
limitations, particularly on data availability, although our models are
that adversely affect the debt servicing capabilities of companies, and
designed to produce outputs that can support our assessment of the
acute extreme weather events.
level of our climate resilience.
We have the opportunity to ease potential negative impacts as
Climate scenario analysis requires considerable amounts of data and
transition risks increase, by supporting our customers to diversify into
we are continuing to enhance coverage of our exposures. Where data
more renewable and greener revenue streams and invest in
is only available for a subset of our counterparties, we extrapolate the
emission-reducing technologies.
results observed where available to the wider population or dataset.
We do not capture the second order impacts of climate risk
Impact on wholesale lending portfolios
exposures within our modelling approach, such as impacts on our
counterparties from their supply chains. ECL increase 1, 2
Climate Scenarios
For a broad overview of the models that we use for our climate scenario Exposure
analysis, as well as graphs that show how global carbon prices and carbon Wholesale at default Current
emissions will differ under our climate scenarios, see our ESG Data Pack at sectors (EAD)3 Commit
www.hsbc.com/esg.
2023
ments Below 2 Degrees
How climate change is impacting our Peak 4 Short Medium Long
term term term
wholesale lending portfolio Conglomerates and n
industrials
The 2024 climate scenario analysis exercise was designed to Chemicals n
examine the climate risks and vulnerabilities of corporate
Construction,
counterparties across high transition risk sectors under climate contracting and n
scenarios of varying severity. Specifically, we measured the modelled building materials
effect on our projected ECL change over the short-, medium- and Power and utilities n
long-term horizons under each scenario. This was compared to a
Oil and gas n
counterfactual scenario that excludes climate change impacts to
isolate the climate only changes in ECL. Automotive n
Land transport and
Counterparty specific analysis was conducted for those corporates n
logistics
where transition risk is elevated either from an overall sectoral
Agriculture & soft
perspective or in response to specific jurisdictional policies, which commodities n
require HSBC to respond to regulatory requirements. This analysis
Metals and mining n
was conducted to generate more granular counterparty-specific
insights relative to previous exercises. Aviation n
Marine n
The impact on our wholesale portfolios is demonstrated by the table
below, which shows the size of exposures by sector in 2024 and the 1 Increase in cumulative ECL compared with counterfactual over short-,
cumulative change in ECL compared with a counterfactual scenario medium- and long-term time horizons, expressed as a multiple.
2 Values in the key represent the multiplier of increase in ECL, i.e. <1.1
(expressed as a multiple). The size of our exposure in each sector is
equates to less than 10% increase over the counterfactual (or equivalent
represented by our exposure at default (‘EAD’) relative to one
proxy which is most representative of baseline for the sector).
another. 3 The size of the bubbles is a visual representation of the portfolios, in terms
of EAD, relative to one another.
Under the Current Commitments scenario, our modelled outputs
4 The peak multiplier reflects the maximum increase in ECL for the Current
predict that ECL will not be more than 25% higher than the Commitments scenario over the forecasted scenario time horizon.
counterfactual scenario for any of the assessed sectors. The highest
impacts are seen in the chemicals, construction and building Lower Higher
materials, power and utilities and agriculture and soft commodities Impact <1.1x <1.25x <1.5x <1.75x <2.25x <2.75x Impact
sectors. Greater climate risks would crystallise in the Below 2
Degrees scenario with its gradually increasing transition to net zero,
How climate change is impacting our
driven by pockets of customers in higher-emitting sectors that are
continuously exposed to larger climate-related losses. retail mortgage portfolio
The analysis shows credit risk losses continue to be driven by As part of our 2024 climate scenario analysis exercise, we completed
counterparties in certain high transition risk sectors where the a detailed climate risk assessment for the UK, US, Singapore and
Group’s largest exposures are concentrated, such as construction Malaysia. In our 2023 exercise we also assessed Hong Kong,
and building materials, chemicals, and power and utilities sectors. In Australia and mainland China. Our coverage represented 91% of the
these sectors we have counterparties, such as steel or cement balances in our global retail mortgage portfolio, across the two
manufacturers who have high emissions in their processes and in exercises. For our Hong Kong portfolio, we completed a short- and
their downstream or upstream value chains, who may also long-term scenario analysis exercise during late 2023 and early 2024
experience cost pressures due to carbon-tax pass-through rates. at the request of the HKMA.
Furthermore, harder to abate sectors contain a high proportion of
customers without climate transition plans. Our analysis shows that over the longer term, we expect minimal
losses to materialise when considering the Current Commitments
We have continued to incorporate information from our customers’ scenario. Although the severity of climate perils is expected to
transition plans to consider how our clients and their sectors will be worsen over time, our overall losses remain low under a severe
impacted. For the oil and gas sector, we see counterparties having Downside Physical Risk scenario.
Risk
review

[PAGE 228]

Risk review
In 2024, we continued to develop our approach to assess impacts The table below outlines the flood depths that the properties would
from severe acute physical risk events with an exploratory new near- be exposed to under different climate scenarios.
term Severe Climate Stress scenario.
Exposure to flooding (%)1
Within all scenarios, loss impacts are assessed by considering
borrowers’ ability and willingness to service their debts, including Climate Scenarios
customers’ affordability incorporating increased debt servicing costs Baseline flood
and the impact on property valuation. risk
Flood 1-in-100 year Current Downside
When quantifying impacts from climate events, insurance availability depth event2, 3 Commitments Physical Risk
is a key mitigation of loss. Our scenario analysis methodology was Markets (metres) 2024 2050 2050
enriched further in 2024 by enhancing insurance availability and 0 92.1 91.5 91.6
assumptions related to insurance premium costs. This approach has 0-0.5 7.8 8.3 5.2
UK
been benchmarked with the insurance industry, based on a 0.5-1.5 0.1 0.2 2.8
calculation of average annualised loss. >1.5 0 0 0.4
0 67.9 64.0 64.0
When assessing impacts from climate risk, we note that there are
Hong 0-0.5 16.9 17.0 15.5
several limitations as mentioned previously. Specifically for our retail Kong4 0.5-1.5 15.1 18.9 20.4
mortgage portfolio, these limitations include:
>1.5 0.1 0.1 0.1
– Lack of historical experience and limited benchmark data,
1 Severe flood events include river and surface flooding and coastal
especially around loss quantification, there is strong reliance on
inundation. The table compares 2050 snapshots under the Current
external peril models and vulnerability assumptions.
Commitments and Downside Physical Risk scenarios with a baseline view
– Accuracy of peril projection data relies upon the exact coordinates in 2024. We do expect to see changes to our flood depth distributions as
of a property. The geocoding process can lead to inaccurate climate risk data is refreshed.
2 Baseline flood risk is the flood risk for a 1-in-100 year event, based on
results for some properties where address data is incomplete or in
current peril data.
regions where geocoding services are less accurate.
3 2024 relates to the year in which the assessment was conducted. The
– Additionally, a key assumption in quantifying the impacts from baseline data is based on the mortgage portfolio as at 31 December 2023
and 2022, for the UK and Hong Kong respectively.
perils is the level of resilience a particular building archetype has,
4 In 2022, 94% of properties in Hong Kong (where HSBC provides
for example age of construction, material or relevant building
mortgages) are apartments located on the second floor or above. For
standards. This information is often limited, and assumptions are properties located in areas exposed to flooding, direct damages would be
made. mitigated against, with only common ground floor areas potentially
impacted.
Projected peril risk
Perils are assessed that are material to each region and where we Through our climate scenario analysis, we recognise acute impacts
have the external peril data available. are more severe than long-term chronic impacts. We observed this
when assessing the outputs under the Severe Climate Stress
Flooding has the potential to be the peril having the largest impact on scenario, which focuses on prescribed physical risk events rather
our portfolio. When assessing the risk in the portfolio we assess both than recognising the probabilistic nature of these perils, which are
the inherent and residual risks. An inherent view considers property considered very unlikely by 2030. Overall, our retail mortgage
location, whereas the residual risk incorporates the resilience a portfolio remains resilient to climate risk and impact severity is muted
particular building has to the peril impacts. The inherent flood risk is at portfolio levels as our book has diversified property locations with
shown below, and outlines the percentage of properties and their insurance coverage being a key loan covenant.
corresponding flood depths predicted in a 1-in-100 year event.
How climate change is impacting our
In 2024, we provided further granularity in our flood risk table by
reporting the proportion of properties that we would expect to be at commercial real estate portfolios
no risk of flooding during a 1-in-100 year severity flood event. In the
In our climate scenario analysis exercise, we assess our commercial
2024 exercise under the Baseline flood risk 1-in-100 year event for
real estate (‘CRE’) customers’ vulnerability to various perils, including
the UK, 92.1% of properties have no forecasted flood risk (2023:
flooding and cyclonic wind exposures. Our CRE portfolio is globally
92.4%), as such c.8% of properties are situated in areas that could be
diversified with larger concentrations in Hong Kong, the UK, France
exposed to varying severities of flooding, however there are often
and the US. In our 2024 exercise we carried out a detailed
mitigating factors, such as the floor level of a building, that reduce
assessment of our UK portfolio. In addition, we performed a bespoke
risk.
assessment of our Hong Kong portfolio via the HKMA climate
scenario analysis exercise.
Geographical location is a key determinant in our exposure to
potential physical risk events, which can lead to higher ECLs due to
the cost of repairing damage as well as the longer-term impacts on
property valuations. These can lead to higher defaults and
consequential losses in areas where physical risk events are gradually
increasing in frequency and severity.

[PAGE 229]

The table below shows the proportion of our CRE portfolio exposed Overall, and in line with our assessment in prior years, our analysis
to specific physical perils in our key markets. shows our commercial real estate portfolio remains resilient to
climate risk. Under our Below 2 Degrees scenario, impact severity is
Exposure to peril (%)1 muted at the portfolio level as our counterparties have diversified
property portfolios with insurance coverage being a key loan
Exposure
covenant. Under the Downside Physical Risk scenario, the impacts
at default Surface
(EAD)2 Coastal Cyclone water Riverine Forest were observed to be heightened due to significant global weather
Market 2023 inundation wind3 flooding flooding Fires events. We also observed impacts in the Severe Climate Stress
scenario are more significant, which were driven by coastal
Hong n inundation and flooding events.
1 100 12 10 2
Kong
Our CRE modelling is subject to similar limitations as our retail
n mortgage climate models in regard to lack of historical data, reliance
17 0 9 8 0
UK on exact building co-ordinates and information on building resilience.
1 Proportion of our CRE portfolio exposed to specific physical perils in the How we assess climate risk impacts
Downside Physical Risk scenario as at 2050.
2 The size of the bubbles is a visual representation of the portfolios, in terms on other risk types
of EAD, relative to one another.
3 Assumes all properties are impacted by some damage due to extreme We use climate scenario analysis to assess the impacts on other
wind, but the intensity of impact is very insignificant and highly muted in
risks including traded risk, sovereign credit risk, pension risk and non-
some regions, represented by (~0%) exposure to this peril.
financial risks.
As assessed through our internal climate scenario analysis exercise,
In 2024 for traded risk, we explored the potential fair value impacts of
impacts on our UK portfolio are largely driven by chronic physical risk,
climate risks on our trading and banking portfolios across multiple
related mainly to coastal and tidal river flooding due to a rise in sea
scenarios, covering physical and transition risk climate drivers, and
level. The UK analysis explored acute weather events, such as
capturing short and long-term impacts. The analysis considered all
extreme rainfall accompanied with storm winds that may lead to
relevant asset classes including interest rates, exchange rates, credit
further property damage and business disruption.
and equities, with market shocks capturing the impact of abrupt
increases in carbon prices or physical risk perils resulting in structural
We assessed the impacts on transition risk for the UK portfolio,
economic impacts that affect the productivity of high-risk sectors at a
mainly focused on the impact of retrofitting costs on property
country level.
valuations due to meet minimum energy performance certificate
(‘EPC’) requirements for properties having low energy efficiency.
For sovereign credit risk we continued to assess the impacts of
climate risks on sovereign debt under the different climate scenarios.
Sensitivity analysis has been conducted on EPC upgrade costs that
would be higher in a faster transition scenario due to the accelerated For pension risk we modelled balance sheet and income statement
pace of upgrades. In the Below 2 Degrees scenario, we assume
projections for the main defined benefit pension plans. This year’s
actions where non-domestic properties are required to achieve an
exercise focused on assessing the impact of a severe physical risk
EPC rating of B by 2040. To meet these minimum standards,
shock using the Severe Climate Stress scenario.
counterparties in our portfolio would potentially need to retrofit their
properties or risk having stranded assets with a material valuation For non-financial risk we assessed the potential impacts of a
haircut. misstatement in our ESG and climate-related reporting and
disclosures. For regulatory compliance risk, we assessed the
The table below demonstrates the impact on our CRE portfolio for potential impacts of greenwashing in the manufacturing and
specific markets, including the three biggest markets – Hong Kong, marketing of ESG funds and in the marketing of sustainability-linked
the UK and the US. This shows the increase in cumulative ECL over bonds. For resilience risk, we assessed the potential impacts on our
different time horizons, under each scenario, compared with a critical real estate from climate change, including temperature
counterfactual scenario (expressed as a multiple). extremes, drought, water stress, wildfire, tropical cyclones and
flooding.
Impact on our commercial real estate portfolio
Understanding the resilience of our
ECL increase 1,2
Climate Scenarios Short-term Medium-term Long-term properties
Below 2 Degrees
Climate change poses a physical risk to the buildings that we occupy,
Downside Physical Risk
potentially impacting our operational resilience. This includes our
offices, retail branches and data centres, both in terms of loss and
Lower Higher
<1.1x <1.25x <1.5x <1.75x <2.25x <2.75x damage, and business interruption.
Impact Impact
We measure the impacts of climate and weather events on our
1 Increase in cumulative ECL compared with counterfactual over short,
buildings on an ongoing basis using historical, current and scenario-
medium and long-term time horizons, expressed as a multiple.
2 Values in the key represent the multiplier of increase in ECL, i.e. <1.1 modelled forecast data. In 2024, there were 40 major storms that had
equates to less than 10% increase over the counterfactual which excludes a minor impact on three of our buildings.
climate change impacts.
We use stress testing to evaluate the potential impact on our owned
Geographically, our most significant exposure is in Hong Kong, which or leased premises. Our 2024 scenario stress test analysed how nine
was assessed in a bespoke exercise. This region has material climate change-related hazards – comprising coastal flooding, fluvial
physical risk exposure to wind and flooding due to strong tropical flooding, pluvial flooding, soil movement due to drought, temperature
cyclones. However, in the HKMA exercise, a large proportion of CRE extremes, water stress, wildfires, landslides and tropical cyclones –
exposures were not materially impacted, with less than 0.5% of could impact 2,719 of our properties.
properties suffering from damage greater than 3% of their asset
values per year. The properties are protected from cyclonic winds and The 2024 test modelled climate change with the Intergovernmental
flooding due to high building standards, high elevation, and protection Panel on Climate Change (‘IPCC’) Taking the Highway scenario
from coastal defences in this region, such as rainstorm impacts being (SSP5-8.5), which projects that the rise in global temperatures will
muted due to the positive impact of new drainage tunnels and tanks likely exceed 4°C by 2100. It also modelled a less severe IPCC Middle
in the city. of the Road scenario (SSP2-4.5), which projects that global warming
will likely be limited to 2°C.
Risk
review

[PAGE 230]

Risk review
Key findings from the Taking the Highway scenario included that by Conclusion to insights from climate
2050, 15 of our 2,719 properties will have a high potential for impact
due to climate change, with insurance-related losses estimated to be scenario analysis
in excess of 10% of the insured value of the buildings.
Climate scenario analysis is an evolving process and there are data
A key finding from the Middle of the Road scenario showed that the and modelling limitations due to the information and expertise
total number of buildings at risk reduced from 15 to 9. The available in the current market. Physical risk modelling is nascent and
highlighted facilities are still at risk from the same perils of extreme currently we are only able to model direct climate peril impacts on
temperature and water stress by 2050. real estate. Limited considerations are made to the pricing
implications of new green products and clients that are likely to
This forward-looking data along with historical data helps inform real emerge over the time horizon.
estate planning. We will continue to enhance our understanding of
how extreme weather events impact our buildings portfolio as We will continue to enhance the use of climate scenario analysis in
climate risk assessment tools improve and evolve. We buy insurance our business decision making, supporting our climate resilience. We
for property damage and business interruption and consider have started to explore the impacts on our portfolio from a nature risk
insurance as a loss-mitigation strategy depending on its availability perspective and expect the model and capabilities to evolve over
and price. time.
We regularly review and enhance our building selection process and
global engineering standards and will continue to assess historical
claims data to help ensure our building selection and design
standards address the potential impacts of climate change.
Resilience risk
Overview
Resilience risk is the risk of sustained and significant business We view resilience risk across nine sub-risk types related to:
disruption from execution, delivery, physical security or safety events, technology and cybersecurity risk; third-party risk; transaction
causing the inability to provide critical services to our customers, processing risk; business interruption and incident risk; data risk;
affiliates and counterparties. Resilience risk arises from failures or change execution risk; building unavailability risk; protective security
inadequacies in processes, people, systems or external events. risk and workplace safety.
Resilience risk management Risk appetite and key escalations for resilience risk are reported to
the Non-Financial Risk Management Board, chaired by the Group
Key developments in 2024 Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, with an escalation path to the
Group Risk Management Meeting and Group Risk Committee.
During the year, we conducted several initiatives to keep pace with
geopolitical, regulatory and technology changes, and strengthened Key risk management processes
the management of resilience risk.
We operate processes to support our resilience according to our Risk
– We continued to recognise that our customers were impacted by Management Framework. Our operational resilience is our ability to
service disruptions, responded to these urgently and aimed to anticipate, prevent, adapt, respond to, recover, and learn from internal
recover with minimum delay. We continued to initiate post- or external disruption, continuing to provide Important Business
incident review processes to prevent recurrence. Where we Services to customers and clients, while minimising impact on the
identify that investment is required to further enhance the Group’s wider financial system when disruption occurs. This is achieved via
operational resilience capabilities, findings are fed into the Group’s day-to-day oversight and periodic and ongoing assurance, such as
financial planning, helping to ensure we continue to meet the deep dive reviews and controls testing, which may result in
expectations of our customers and our regulators. challenges being raised to our businesses and group governance by
our risk stewards. We have invested to improve response and
– We continued to monitor markets affected by the Russia-Ukraine
recovery strategies for our important business services and Important
war and the conflict in the Middle East, as well as other
Group business services to meet regulatory and customer
geopolitical events, for any potential impact they may have on our
expectations.
colleagues and operations.
Business operations continuity
– We provided analysis and easy-to-access risk and control
information and metrics to enable management to focus on non-
We continue to monitor the Russia-Ukraine war and the conflict in the
financial risks in their decision making and appetite setting.
Middle East, and remain ready to take measures to ensure business
– We further strengthened our non-financial risk governance and continuity in affected markets should the situations require. There
senior leadership. have been no related significant disruptions to our services, although
We prioritise our efforts on material risks and areas undergoing businesses and functions in nearby markets continually review their
strategic growth, aligning our location strategy to this need. We also plans and responses to minimise any potential impacts.
remotely provide oversight and stewardship, including support of
chief risk officers, in territories where we have no physical presence.
Governance and structure
The Enterprise Risk Management target operating model provides a
globally consistent view across resilience risks, strengthening our risk
management oversight while operating effectively as part of a
simplified non-financial risk structure.

[PAGE 231]

Regulatory compliance risk
Overview
Regulatory Compliance risk is the risk associated with breaching our Governance and structure
duty to clients and other counterparties, inappropriate market conduct
The Group Head of Regulatory Compliance reports to the Group Chief
(including unauthorised trading) and breaching related financial
Risk and Compliance Officer. Regulatory Compliance and Financial
services regulatory standards. Regulatory Compliance risk arises from
Crime Compliance teams work together and with relevant
the failure to observe relevant laws, codes, rules and regulations and
stakeholders to achieve good conduct outcomes, and provide
can manifest itself in poor market or customer outcomes and lead to
enterprise-wide support on the Compliance risk agenda in close
fines, penalties and reputational damage to our business. We aim to
collaboration with colleagues from the Group Risk and Compliance
keep abreast of developments in legal principles or conduct
function.
requirements (including in relation to the risk of such developments in
one part of the financial industry being construed as applying to other Key risk management processes
parts of the financial industry, which could lead to legal or regulatory
proceedings). The Global Regulatory Compliance capability is responsible for setting
global policies, standards and risk appetite to guide the Group’s
Regulatory compliance risk
management of Regulatory Compliance risk. It also devises the
required frameworks, support processes and tooling to protect
management
against Regulatory Compliance risks. The Group capability provides
Key developments in 2024 oversight, review and challenge to the global market, regional and
local line of business teams to help them identify, assess and
Regulatory horizon scanning and mapping capabilities continue to mitigate Regulatory Compliance risks, where required. The Group’s
evolve with a focus on enhanced connectivity to Risk management Regulatory Compliance risk policies are regularly reviewed. Global
systems to support better traceability of regulatory obligations. policies and procedures require the identification and escalation of
any actual or potential regulatory breaches.
We have enhanced our processes, framework, and governance
Relevant events and issues are escalated to the Group’s Non-
capabilities to improve the controls and oversight of Consumer Duty
Financial Risk Management Board, the Group Risk Management
outcomes in the UK. Work is underway to transition from event-
Meeting and the Group Risk Committee, as appropriate. The Group
driven technology to incorporate Cloud and analytics capability to
Head of Regulatory Compliance attends the Risk and Compliance
enhance our oversight abilities in areas such as surveillance.
Executive Committee, the Group Risk Management Meeting and the
Group Risk Committee.
Financial crime risk
Overview
Financial crime risk is the risk that HSBC’s products and services will Governance and structure
be exploited for criminal activity. This includes fraud, bribery and
corruption, tax evasion, sanctions and export control violations and The structure of the Financial Crime function remained substantively
evasion, money laundering, terrorist financing and proliferation unchanged in 2024. The Group Head of Financial Crime and Group
financing. Financial crime risk arises from day-to-day banking Money Laundering Reporting Officer continues to report to the Group
operations involving customers, third parties and employees. Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, while the Group Risk Committee
retains oversight of matters relating to financial crime.
Financial crime risk management
Key risk management processes
Key developments in 2024
We will not tolerate knowingly conducting business with individuals
We regularly review the effectiveness of our financial crime risk or entities believed to be engaged in criminal activity. We require
management framework, which includes continued consideration of everybody in HSBC to play their role in maintaining effective systems
the complex and dynamic nature of sanctions compliance and export and controls to prevent and detect financial crime. Where we believe
control risk. We continued to respond to the financial sanctions and we have identified suspected criminal activity or vulnerabilities in our
trade restrictions that have been imposed on Russia, including control framework, we will take appropriate mitigating action.
methods used to limit sanctions evasion.
We manage financial crime risk because it is the right thing to do to
We continued to make progress with several key financial crime risk protect our customers, shareholders, staff, the communities in which
management initiatives, including: we operate, as well as the integrity of the financial system on which
we all rely. We operate in a highly regulated industry in which these
– deployment of our intelligence-led, dynamic risk assessment
same policy goals are codified in law and regulation.
capability for customer account monitoring in additional entities
and global businesses; We are committed to complying with the laws and regulations of all
– deployment of a next generation capability to increase our the markets in which we operate and apply a consistently high
monitoring coverage on correspondent banking activity in financial crime standard globally.
additional markets;
We continued to invest in enhancing our operational control
– enhancing our fraud controls and continuing to invest in, and
capabilities and technology solutions to deter and detect criminal
monitor, technological developments; and
activity. We further strengthened our financial crime risk taxonomy
– enhancements in response to the rapidly evolving and complex and control libraries and our monitoring capabilities through
global payments landscape and refinement of our digital assets technology deployments. We developed more targeted metrics, and
and currencies strategy. continued to seek to enhance our governance and reporting.
Risk
review

[PAGE 232]

Risk review
We are committed to working in partnership with the wider industry Action Task Force. We did this by contributing to the development of
and the public sector in managing financial crime risk. In 2024, our responses to consultation papers focused on how financial crime risk
focus remained on measures to improve the overall effectiveness of management frameworks can deliver more effective outcomes in
the global financial crime framework and promote the risk-based detecting and deterring criminal activity. In addition, we participated
approach. in a number of public events related to the promotion of risk-based
supervision, payment transparency, fraud risk management and
Through our work with industry bodies, such as the Wolfsberg Group,
financial inclusion, as well as tackling forestry crimes, wildlife
we provided input into legislative and regulatory reform activities and
trafficking and human trafficking.
supported the efforts of the global standard setter, the Financial
Model risk
Overview
Model risk is the risk of the potential for adverse consequences from Governance and structure
model errors or the inappropriate use of modelled outputs to inform
business decisions. Model risk governance committees at the Group, business and
functional levels provide oversight of model risk. The committees
Model risk arises in both financial and non-financial contexts
include senior leaders from the global businesses and the Group Risk
whenever business decision making includes reliance on models.
and Compliance function, and focus on model-related concerns and
Key developments in 2024 are supported by key model risk metrics. We also have Model Risk
Committees in our geographical regions focused on local delivery and
In 2024, we continued to make improvements in our Model Risk requirements. The Group-level Model Risk Committee is chaired by
Management (‘MRM’) processes amid regulatory changes in MRM the Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, and the heads of key
requirements. businesses participate in these meetings.
Initiatives during the year included:
Key risk management processes
– updating our MRM Framework to meet the requirements of the
We use a variety of modelling approaches, including regression,
PRA’s SS1/23 with a programme of work in progress to
simulation, sampling, machine learning and judgemental scorecards
implement these changes across the model landscape;
for a range of business applications. These activities include
– completing a review of model tiering across the organisation customer selection, product pricing, financial crime transaction
assessing the materiality and complexity of all models and monitoring, creditworthiness evaluation and financial reporting. Global
assigning a new tier which will drive the level of oversight required responsibility for managing model risk is delegated from the Board to
at model level; the Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, who authorises the
– introducing a new framework to govern and manage the risks Group Model Risk Committee. This committee regularly reviews our
associated with Deterministic Quantitative Methods, which are model risk management policies and procedures, and requires the
complex and material calculators that although not technically first line of defence to demonstrate comprehensive and effective
models still present similar risks; controls based on a library of model risk controls provided by Model
– following feedback from the PRA and other regulators on a Risk Management. Model Risk Management also reports on model
number of our model submissions for internal ratings-based (‘IRB’) risk to senior management and the Group Risk Committee on a
models, we are delivering a programme of work to redevelop regular basis through the use of the risk map, risk appetite metrics
several IRB models for wholesale credit; and top and emerging risks.
– enhancing our framework for the independent validation of models We regularly review the effectiveness of these processes, including
accounting for new generative AI techniques becoming more the model risk committee structure, to help ensure appropriate
widely used; and understanding and ownership of model risk is embedded in the
businesses and functions.
– working closely with businesses and functions in developing a
governance framework to manage the range of risks these AI and
Machine Learning (‘ML’) techniques can introduce.

[PAGE 233]

Insurance manufacturing
operations risk
practices relating to the risk management of insurance contracts,
Contents
which did not change materially over 2024. During the year, there
was continued market volatility observed across interest rates, equity
231 Overview
and credit markets and foreign exchange rates. This was
231 Insurance manufacturing operations risk management predominantly driven by geopolitical factors and wider inflationary
232 Insurance manufacturing operations risk in 2024 concerns. Other areas of focus were the ongoing integration of the
232 Measurement insurance business that was acquired through AXA Singapore in 2022
233 Key risk types into the Group’s risk management framework, development of
processes and systems within the reinsurance entity established in
233 – Market risk
Bermuda, and controls supporting IFRS 17.
234 – Credit risk
234 – Liquidity risk As mentioned, the insurance business in Argentina was sold during
235 – Insurance underwriting risk 2024, with the sale completing on 6 December 2024. Following
HSBC’s announcement on 20 December 2024 of the signing of a
memorandum of understanding for the planned sale of its French
Overview insurance business, the balance sheet of the French business has
been reported as held for sale at 31 December 2024. Further details
The key risks for our insurance manufacturing operations are market are provided on page 411.
risk, in particular interest rate and equity, credit risk and insurance
underwriting risk. These have a direct impact on the financial results Governance and structure
and capital positions of the insurance operations.
(Audited)
HSBC’s insurance business
Insurance manufacturing risks are managed to a defined risk appetite,
which is aligned to the Group’s risk appetite and risk management
We sell insurance products through a range of channels including our framework, including its three lines of defence model. For details of
branches, insurance sales forces, direct channels and third-party
the Group’s governance framework, see page 128. The Global
distributors. The majority of sales are through an integrated
Insurance Risk Management Meeting oversees the control
bancassurance model that provides insurance products principally for
framework globally and is accountable to the WPB Risk Management
customers with whom we have a banking relationship, although the
Meeting on risk matters relating to the insurance business.
proportion of sales through other sources such as independent
financial advisers, tied agents and digital platforms is increasing. The monitoring of the risks within our insurance operations is carried
out by Insurance Risk teams. The Group’s risk stewardship functions
For the insurance products we manufacture, the majority of sales are
support the Insurance Risk teams in their respective areas of
savings, universal life and protection contracts.
expertise.
We choose to manufacture these insurance products in HSBC
Stress and scenario testing
subsidiaries based on an assessment of operational scale and risk
appetite. Manufacturing insurance allows us to retain the risks and
(Audited)
rewards associated with writing insurance contracts by keeping part
of the underwriting profit and investment income within the Group. Stress testing forms a key part of the risk management framework
for the insurance business. We participate in local and Group-wide
Our life insurance manufacturing subsidiaries operate in eight regulatory stress tests, as well as internally developed stress and
markets, which are Hong Kong, Macau, Singapore, mainland China, scenario tests, including Group internal stress test exercises.
France, UK, Malta and Mexico. This excludes Argentina where the
sale of the insurance business was completed on 6 December 2024. The results of these stress tests and the adequacy of management
In addition, we have: an interest in a life insurance manufacturing action plans to mitigate these risks are considered in the Group’s
associate in India; a captive insurance entity in Bermuda that insures ICAAP and the entities’ regulatory Own Risk and Solvency
the non-financial risks of the wider Group; and a reinsurance entity in Assessments, which are produced by all material entities.
Bermuda.
Key risk management processes
Where we do not have the risk appetite or operational scale to be an
Market risk
effective insurance manufacturer, we engage with a small number of
(Audited)
leading external insurance companies in order to provide insurance
products to our customers. These arrangements are generally All our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries have market risk
structured with our exclusive strategic partners and earn the Group a mandates and limits that specify the investment instruments in which
combination of commissions, fees and a share of profits. We they are permitted to invest and the maximum quantum of market
distribute insurance products in all of our geographical regions. risk that they may retain. They manage market risk by using some or
all of the techniques listed below, among others, depending on the
This section focuses only on the risks relating to the insurance nature of the contracts written.
products we manufacture.
– We are able to adjust bonus rates to manage the liabilities to
Insurance manufacturing operations policyholders for products with participating features. The effect is
that a significant proportion of the market risk is borne by the
risk management
policyholder.
Key developments in 2024 – We use asset and liability matching where asset portfolios are
structured to support projected liability cash flows. The Group
The insurance manufacturing subsidiaries follow the Group’s risk manages its assets using an approach that considers asset quality,
management framework. In addition, there are specific policies and diversification, cash flow matching, liquidity, volatility and target
Risk
review

[PAGE 234]

Risk review
investment return. We use models to assess the effect of a range Risk appetite buffers are set to ensure that the operations are able to
of future scenarios on the values of financial assets and remain solvent, allowing for business-as-usual volatility and extreme
associated liabilities, and ALCOs employ the outcomes in but plausible stress events.
determining how best to structure asset holdings to support
Liquidity risk is less material for the insurance business. It is managed
liabilities.
by cash flow matching and maintaining sufficient cash resources,
– We use derivatives and other financial instruments to protect investing in high credit-quality investments with deep and liquid
against adverse market movements. markets, monitoring investment concentrations and restricting them
– We design new products to mitigate market risk, such as where appropriate, and establishing committed contingency
changing the investment return sharing proportion between borrowing facilities.
policyholders and the shareholder.
Insurance manufacturing subsidiaries complete quarterly liquidity risk
Credit risk reports and an annual review of the liquidity risks to which they are
(Audited) exposed.
Our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries also have credit risk Insurance underwriting risk
mandates and limits within which they are permitted to operate, (Audited)
which consider the credit risk exposure, quality and performance of
Our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries primarily use the following
their investment portfolios. Our assessment of the creditworthiness
frameworks and processes to manage and mitigate insurance
of issuers and counterparties is based primarily upon internationally
underwriting risks:
recognised credit ratings and other publicly available information.
– a formal approval process for launching new products or making
Stress testing is performed on investment credit exposures using
changes to products;
credit spread sensitivities and default probabilities.
– a product pricing and profitability framework, which requires initial
We use a number of tools to manage and monitor credit risk. These and ongoing assessment of the adequacy of premiums charged
include a credit report containing a watch-list of investments with on new insurance contracts to meet the risks associated with
current credit concerns, primarily investments that may be at risk of them;
future impairment or where high concentrations to counterparties are
– a framework for customer underwriting;
present in the investment portfolio. Sensitivities to credit spread risk
are assessed and monitored regularly. – reinsurance, which cedes risks to third-party reinsurers to keep
risks within risk appetite, reduce volatility and improve capital
Capital and liquidity risk
efficiency; and
(Audited)
– oversight by financial reporting committees and actuarial review
Capital risk for our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries is assessed
committees in each of our entities of the methodology and
in the Group’s ICAAP, based on their financial capacity to support the
assumptions that underpin IFRS 17 reporting.
risks to which they are exposed. Capital adequacy is assessed on
both the Group’s economic capital basis, and the relevant local
insurance regulatory basis.
Insurance manufacturing operations risk in 2024
Measurement
The following tables show the composition of the fair value of underlying items of the Group’s participating contracts at the reporting date.
Balance sheet of insurance manufacturing subsidiaries by type of contract
(Audited)
Life direct
participating Life Shareholder
and investment other Other assets
DPF contracts1 contracts2 contracts3 and liabilities Total
At 31 Dec 2024 $m $m $m $m $m
Financial assets 98,676 4,452 6,227 5,967 115,322
– trading assets — — — — —
– financial assets designated and otherwise mandatorily measured
at fair value through profit or loss 94,327 4,233 4,839 690 104,089
– derivatives 207 7 1 — 215
– financial investments – at amortised cost 545 90 1,060 4,335 6,030
– financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income — — 6 73 79
– other financial assets 3,597 122 321 869 4,909
Insurance contract assets 14 104 — — 118
Reinsurance contract assets — 5,013 — — 5,013
Other assets and investment properties4 24,647 64 36 3,337 28,084
Total assets at 31 Dec 2024 123,337 9,633 6,263 9,304 148,537
Liabilities under investment contracts designated at fair value — — 5,931 — 5,931
Insurance contract liabilities 102,605 4,427 — — 107,032
Reinsurance contract liabilities — 701 — — 701
Deferred tax — — — 12 12
Other liabilities4 21,772 39 — 6,035 27,846
Total liabilities 124,377 5,167 5,931 6,047 141,522
Total equity — — — 7,015 7,015
Total liabilities and equity at 31 Dec 2024 124,377 5,167 5,931 13,062 148,537

[PAGE 235]

Balance sheet of insurance manufacturing subsidiaries by type of contract
(Audited)
Life direct
participating and Life Shareholder
investment DPF other Other assets
contracts1 contracts2 contracts3 and liabilities Total
At 31 Dec 2023 $m $m $m $m $m
Financial assets 113,605 3,753 5,812 7,696 130,866
– trading assets — — — — —
– financial assets designated and otherwise mandatorily measured
at fair value through profit or loss 100,427 3,593 4,177 1,166 109,363
– derivatives 258 10 — 6 274
– financial investments – at amortised cost 1,351 67 1,157 4,772 7,347
– financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 8,859 — 5 693 9,557
– other financial assets 2,710 83 473 1,059 4,325
Insurance contract assets 13 213 — — 226
Reinsurance contract assets — 4,871 — — 4,871
Other assets and investment properties 2,782 164 35 1,636 4,617
Total assets at 31 Dec 2023 116,400 9,001 5,847 9,332 140,580
Liabilities under investment contracts designated at fair value — — 5,103 — 5,103
Insurance contract liabilities 116,389 3,961 — — 120,350
Reinsurance contract liabilities — 819 — — 819
Deferred tax — 1 — 3 4
Other liabilities — — — 6,573 6,573
Total liabilities 116,389 4,781 5,103 6,576 132,849
Total equity — — — 7,731 7,731
Total liabilities and equity at 31 Dec 2023 116,389 4,781 5,103 14,307 140,580
1 ‘Life direct participating and investment DPF contracts’ are life direct participating contracts and investment contracts with discretionary participating features.
These are substantially measured under the variable fee approach measurement model.
2 ‘Life other contracts’ are measured under the general measurement model and mainly include protection insurance contracts as well as reinsurance contracts.
The reinsurance contracts primarily provide diversification benefits over the life direct participating and investment DPF contracts.
3 ‘Other contracts’ includes investment contracts for which HSBC does not bear significant insurance risk.
4 ’Other assets and investment properties’ includes $24,222m and ’Other liabilities’ includes $23,420m in respect of the classification of the French insurance
business assets and liabilities as held for sale at 31 December 2024. Further details are provided on page 411.
Key risk types
Market risk
(Audited)
Description and exposure Sensitivities
Market risk is the risk of changes in market factors affecting HSBC’s The following table provides the impacts on the CSM, profit after tax and
capital or profit. Market factors include interest rates, equity and growth equity of our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries from reasonably
assets, credit spreads and foreign exchange rates. possible effects of changes in selected interest rate, credit spread, equity
price, growth assets and foreign exchange rate scenarios for the year.
Our exposure varies depending on the type of contract issued. Our most
These sensitivities are prepared in accordance with current IFRS
significant life insurance products are contracts with participating
Accounting Standards and are based on changing one assumption at a
features. These products typically include some form of capital guarantee
time with other variables being held constant, recognising that in practice
or guaranteed return on the sums invested by the policyholders, to which
such variables could be correlated.
bonuses are added if allowed by the overall performance of the funds. For
contracts without participating features, some form of guarantee may still Due in part to the impact of the cost of guarantees and hedging strategies
exist but HSBC’s ability to share risks with policyholders will be reduced. which may be in place, the relationship between the CSM, profit after tax
Funds supporting these savings products are primarily invested in fixed and total equity and the risk factors is non-linear. Therefore, the results
income, with a proportion in some cases allocated to other asset classes disclosed should not be extrapolated to measure sensitivities to different
to provide customers with the potential for enhanced returns. levels of stress. For the same reason, the impact of the stress is not
necessarily symmetrical on the upside and downside. The sensitivities
These products expose HSBC to the risk of variation in asset returns,
are stated before allowance for management actions, which may mitigate
which will impact our participation in the investment performance.
the effect of changes in the market environment.
In addition, in some scenarios the asset returns can become insufficient
The method used for deriving sensitivity information and significant
to cover the policyholders’ financial guarantees, and some contracts are
market risk factors remain unchanged except for updates made to the
non-participating, in which case the shortfall has to be met by HSBC.
foreign exchange rate risk methodology, which now limits the impacts to
Amounts are held against the cost of such positions, calculated by
within more recent historical ranges. 2023 comparative sensitivities have
stochastic modelling in the larger entities.
been updated to reflect this change.
The cost of such guarantees are generally not material and are absorbed
The sensitivities provided below include the French insurance
by the insurance fulfilment cash flows.
business, which was classified as held for sale at 31 December 2024.
Further details are provided on page 411.
For unit-linked contracts, market risk is substantially borne by the
policyholder, but some market risk exposure typically remains, as fees
earned are related to the market value of the linked assets.
Risk
review

[PAGE 236]

Risk review
Sensitivity of HSBC’s insurance manufacturing subsidiaries to market risk factors
(Audited)
2024 2023
Effect on Effect on profit Effect on Effect on Effect on Effect on
CSM after tax1 total equity CSM profit after tax1 total equity
$m $m $m $m $m $m
+100 basis point parallel shift in yield curves (155) 83 52 (92) 66 32
-100 basis point parallel shift in yield curves (249) (217) (186) (390) (137) (103)
+100 basis point shift in credit spreads (907) (84) (115) (884) (11) (45)
-100 basis point shift in credit spreads 876 60 91 806 104 138
10% increase in growth assets2 467 73 73 436 78 78
10% decrease in growth assets2 (514) (79) (79) (507) (85) (85)
10% appreciation in US dollar exchange rate against local
functional currency3 71 17 17 24 (1) (1)
10% depreciation in US dollar exchange rate against local
functional currency3 (26) (3) (3) (35) (3) (3)
1 ‘Effect on profit after tax‘ in respect for the year.
2 ‘Growth assets’ primarily comprise equity securities and investment properties. Variability in growth asset fair value constitutes a market risk to insurance
manufacturing subsidiaries.
3 During the year 10% US dollar exchange rate methodology changed and the 10% sensitivity range applies to all currencies except for the Hong Kong dollar,
where the extent of change is limited by the impact of the HKD to USD peg. The comparatives have been restated accordingly.
Credit risk The risk associated with credit spread volatility is to a large extent
mitigated by holding debt securities to maturity, and sharing a degree
(Audited) of credit spread experience with policyholders.
Description and exposure
Liquidity risk
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss if a customer or counterparty
fails to meet their obligation under a contract. It arises in two main (Audited)
risks for our insurance manufacturers:
Description and exposure
– the risk associated with credit spread volatility and default by debt Liquidity risk is the risk that an insurance operation, though solvent,
security counterparties after investing premiums to generate a either does not have sufficient financial resources available to meet
return for policyholders and shareholders; and its obligations when they fall due, or can secure them only at
excessive cost. Liquidity risk may be able to be shared with
– the risk of default by reinsurance counterparties and non-
policyholders for products with participating features.
reimbursement for claims made after ceding insurance risk.
The amounts outstanding at the balance sheet date in respect The remaining maturity of insurance contract liabilities is included in
of these items are shown in the table on page 232. Note 4 on page 373.
The credit quality of the reinsurers’ share of liabilities under insurance
contracts is assessed as ‘satisfactory’ or higher (as defined on
page 139), with none of the exposure being either past due or
impaired (2023: none).
Credit risk on assets supporting unit-linked liabilities is predominantly
borne by the policyholders. Therefore, our exposure is primarily
related to liabilities under non-linked insurance and investment
contracts and shareholders’ funds. The credit quality of insurance
financial assets is included in the table on page 166.
The amounts of insurance contract liabilities that are payable on demand are set out by the product grouping below; 2024 balances exclude the
French insurance business that was classified as held for sale at 31 December 2024 (further details are provided on page 411).
Amounts payable on demand
(Audited)
2024 2023
Carrying amount
Amounts payable for these Amounts payable Carrying amount
on demand contracts on demand for these contracts
$m $m $m $m
Life direct participating and investment DPF contracts 98,275 102,605 107,287 116,389
Life other contracts 2,960 4,427 2,765 3,961
At 31 Dec 101,235 107,032 110,052 120,350

[PAGE 237]

Insurance underwriting risk
Description and exposure of future income on the lapsed policies. However, some contract
Insurance underwriting risk is the risk of loss through adverse lapses have a positive effect on profit due to the existence of policy
experience, in either timing or amount, of insurance underwriting surrender charges.
parameters (non-economic assumptions). These parameters include
Mortality and morbidity risk is typically associated with life insurance
mortality, morbidity, longevity, lapse and expense rates.
contracts. During the year we have revised the sensitivity to mortality
and morbidity rates from 10% to 5% to align with reasonably
The principal risk we face is that, over time, the cost of the contract,
foreseeable changes, and the comparatives have been restated
including claims and benefits, may exceed the total amount of
accordingly. The effect on profit of an increase in mortality or
premiums and investment income received.
morbidity depends on the type of business being written.
The tables on page 232 analyse our life insurance underwriting risk
Expense rate risk is the exposure to a change in the allocated cost
exposures by composition of the fair value of the underlying items.
of administering insurance contracts. To the extent that increased
The insurance underwriting risk profile and related exposures remain expenses cannot be passed on to policyholders, an increase in
largely consistent with those observed at 31 December 2023. expense rates will have a negative effect on our profits. This risk is
generally greatest for our smaller entities.
Sensitivities
(Audited) The impact of changing insurance underwriting risk factors is primarily
absorbed within the CSM, unless contracts are onerous in which case
The following table shows the sensitivity of the CSM, profit and total
the impact is directly to profit. The impact of changes to the CSM is
equity to reasonably foreseeable changes in non-economic
released to profits over the expected coverage periods of the related
assumptions across all our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries.
insurance contracts.
These sensitivities are prepared in accordance with current IFRS.
The sensitivities provided below include the French insurance
Sensitivity to lapse rates depends on the type of contracts business, which was classified as held for sale at 31 December 2024.
being written. An increase in lapse rates typically has a negative Further details are provided on page 411.
effect on CSM (and therefore expected future profits) due to the loss
Sensitivity of HSBC’s insurance manufacturing subsidiaries to insurance underwriting risk factors1
(Audited)
Effect on Effect on Effect on
CSM profit after tax2 total equity
At 31 Dec 2024 $m $m $m
10% increase in lapse rates (282) (21) (30)
10% decrease in lapse rates 297 23 36
5% increase in mortality and/or morbidity rates (92) (16) (20)
5% decrease in mortality and/or morbidity rates 102 14 23
10% increase in expense rates (66) (11) (15)
10% decrease in expense rates 68 12 15
At 31 Dec 2023
10% increase in lapse rates (277) (24) (24)
10% decrease in lapse rates 290 29 29
5% increase in mortality and/or morbidity rates3 (87) (11) (11)
5% decrease in mortality and/or morbidity rates3 87 16 16
10% increase in expense rates (68) (6) (6)
10% decrease in expense rates 67 11 11
1 The sensitivities impacts are provided after considering the impacts of reinsurance contracts held as risk mitigation.
2 ‘Effect on profit after tax‘ in respect for the year.
3 During the year the sensitivity to mortality and morbidity rates have been changed from 10% to 5% and the comparatives have been restated accordingly.
Risk
review

[PAGE 238]

Corporate
governance
report
HSBC continues to enhance its corporate 237 The Board
governance practices and procedures to 242 Senior management
support the Board’s commitment to high 245 How we are governed
251 Board matters considered and workforce
standards of corporate governance.
engagement
257 Board and committee effectiveness,
The corporate governance report contains the
performance and accountability
Report of the Directors and gives details of our
259 Board committees
Board of Directors, senior management, and 279 Directors’ remuneration report
Board committees. It outlines key aspects of 318 Share capital and other related governance
disclosures
our approach to corporate governance,
323 Internal control
including internal control. 325 Employees
327 Statement of compliance
It also includes the Directors’ remuneration
report, which explains our policies on
remuneration and their application.
We have a comprehensive range of policies and systems
in place designed to help ensure that the Group is well
managed, with effective oversight and control.
London, UK, 2019. HSBC Lion, 8 Canada Square.

[PAGE 239]

The Board
The Board, which seeks to promote the Group’s long-term success,
deliver sustainable value to shareholders and promote a culture
of openness and debate, comprises diverse, high-calibre members
who have experience in our global markets.
Chairman and executive Directors
Sir Mark E Tucker (67) Georges Elhedery (50) Manveen Kaur
Group CEO (known as Pam Kaur) (61)
Appointed to the Board: January 2023 Group CFO
Group Chairman Appointed to the Board: January 2025
Appointed to the Board: September 2017 Skills and experience: Georges has over 25 years
Group Chairman since: October 2017 of experience in the banking industry across Skills and experience: Pam has extensive global
Europe, the Middle East and Asia, and has held a banking experience, gained over an almost 40-year
Skills and experience: With over 40 years of number of executive roles at a regional, global career with a number of global financial institutions.
experience in financial services in Asia, the US, the business and functional level. She has performed many senior roles in audit,
UK, and Africa, including 30 years based in Hong business, compliance, finance and risk
Kong, Mark has a deep understanding of the Career: Georges was appointed Group CEO from management.
industry and the markets in which we operate. 2 September 2024. He most recently served as
Group CFO between January 2023 and September Career: Pam was appointed Group CFO on
Career: Mark is also non-executive Group Chairman 2024. Georges joined HSBC in 2005 with extensive 1 January 2025. Prior to this, she served as Group
of the Discovery Group of South Africa. Mark was trading experience in London, Paris and Tokyo. He Chief Risk Officer from January 2020 and assumed
previously Group Chief Executive and President of has since held a number of senior leadership roles, responsibility for Compliance in June 2021. She
AIA Group Limited (‘AIA’). Prior to that, he was including Head of Global Banking and Markets, served as Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer
Group Chief Executive of Prudential plc. Mark Middle East and North Africa; Chief Executive until December 2024. Prior to joining HSBC in April
previously served on the Court of the Bank of Officer for HSBC, Middle East, North Africa and 2013 as Group Head of Internal Audit, Pam held
England. He has also served on the Board of the Türkiye; Global Head of Markets; and co-Chief several senior positions including Global Head of
Goldman Sachs Group. Executive Officer, Global Banking and Markets Group Audit for Deutsche Bank; Chief Financial
based in London. Officer and Chief Operating Officer of the
External appointments: Restructuring and Risk Division for Royal Bank of
– Non-executive Group Chairman of Discovery External appointments: Scotland Group plc; Group Head of Compliance and
Group of South Africa – Member of the Monetary Authority of Singapore, Anti-Money Laundering for Lloyds TSB; and Chief
– Supporting Chair of Chapter Zero International Advisory Panel Compliance Officer for Citigroup International.
– Member of the Asia Business Council – Independent non-executive Director of
– Member of the Hong Kong Chief Executive’s Sustainable Markets Initiative Limited External appointments:
Council of Advisers – Member of the Financial Services Task Force of – Non-executive Director of The Hongkong and
– Member of the Investment Council of the the Sustainable Markets Initiative Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited
Supreme National Investment Committee of the – Member of the Advisory Board of The China – Independent non-executive Director of abrdn plc
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Children Development Fund
– Chairman of the Multinational Chairmen’s Group – Principal Member of The Glasgow Financial
– Director, Peterson Institute for International Alliance for Net Zero .
Economics
– Director, Institute of International Finance
– Trustee, Asia Society Global Board of Trustees
– Member of the China National Financial
Regulatory Administration International Advisory
Council (NFRA IAC)
– International Adviser, Hong Kong Academy of
Finance - International Council of Advisers
– Member of the Advisory Board of the Asia Global
Institute Board committee membership key
– International Business Leaders’ Advisory Council Committee Chair
to the Mayor of Beijing (IBLAC Beijing) – Advisor
Group Audit Committee
to the Mayor
– International Business Leaders’ Advisory Council Group Risk Committee
to the Mayor of Shanghai (IBLAC Shanghai) –
Group Remuneration Committee
Advisor to the Mayor
Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee
Group Technology and Operations Committee
For full biographical details of our Board
members, see www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/our-
people/board-of-directors.
Corporate
governance

[PAGE 240]

Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
Independent non-executive Directors
Geraldine Buckingham (47) Rachel Duan (54) Dame Carolyn Fairbairn (64)
Independent non-executive Independent non-executive Independent non-executive
Director Director Director
Appointed to the Board: May 2022 Appointed to the Board: September Appointed to the Board: September
2021 2021
Skills and experience: Geraldine is
an experienced executive within the Skills and experience: Rachel is an Skills and experience: Carolyn has
global financial services industry, with experienced business leader with significant experience across the
significant leadership experience in exceptional international experience in media, government and finance
Asia. the US, Japan, mainland China and sectors, and a deep understanding of
Hong Kong. the macroeconomic, regulatory and
Career: Geraldine is the former Chair political environment.
and Head of Asia-Pacific at BlackRock, Career: Rachel spent 24 years at
where she was responsible for all General Electric (‘GE’), where she Career: An economist by training,
business activities across Hong Kong, held positions including Senior Vice Carolyn has served as a partner at
mainland China, Japan, Australia, President of GE, and President and McKinsey & Company, a member of
Singapore, India and Korea. After Chief Executive Officer of GE’s Global the UK prime minister John Major’s
stepping down from this role, she Markets where she was responsible Number 10 Policy Unit, and as
acted as senior adviser to the for driving GE’s growth in Asia-Pacific, Director-General of the Confederation
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer the Middle East, Africa, Latin America, of British Industry, and held senior
of BlackRock. She earlier served as Russia and the Commonwealth of executive positions at the BBC and
BlackRock’s Global Head of Corporate Independent States. She also ITV plc. She has extensive board
Strategy, and previously was a partner previously served as President and experience, having previously served
within McKinsey & Company’s Chief Executive Officer of GE as non-executive Director of Lloyds
financial services practice. Advanced Materials China and then of Banking Group plc, The Vitec Group
Asia-Pacific; President and CEO of GE plc, Capita plc and BAE Systems plc.
External appointments: Healthcare China; and President and She has also served as a non-
– Independent non-executive Director CEO of GE China. She has previously executive Director of the UK
of Brunswick Group Partnership Ltd served as a non-executive Director of Competition and Markets Authority
– Independent non-executive Director AXA S.A. and the Financial Services Authority.
of H.R.L. Morrison & Co Limited
– Member of the Advisory Board of External appointments: External appointments:
ClimateWorks Centre Australia – Independent non-executive Director – Senior Independent non-executive
– Member of the Advisory Board of of Sanofi S.A. Director of Tesco plc
the McKinsey Health Institute – Independent non-executive Director – Chair of Royal Mencap Society
of the Adecco Group AG
– Independent non-executive Director
of Kering S.A.

[PAGE 241]

James Forese (61) Ann Godbehere (69) Steven Guggenheimer (59)
Independent non-executive Independent non-executive Independent non-executive
Director Director Director
Appointed to the Board: May 2020 Appointed to the Board: September Appointed to the Board: May 2020
2023
Skills and experience: Jamie has Skills and experience: Steven
Senior Independent non-executive
over 30 years of international brings extensive insight into
Director: May 2024
business and management technologies ranging from artificial
experience in the finance industry Skills and experience: Ann brings intelligence to Cloud computing,
working in areas including global deep financial acumen and extensive through his experience advising
markets, investment and private financial services experience over a businesses on digital transformation.
banking. 30-year career spanning insurance,
Career: Steven has more than 25
retail and private banking, and wealth
Career: Jamie formerly served as years of experience at Microsoft,
management. She also provides
President of Citigroup. He began his including more than a decade as
global perspectives, drawing upon
career in securities trading with Corporate Vice President, where he
experiences and insights gained from
Salomon Brothers, one of Citigroup’s led teams focused on original
a long career in international business.
predecessor companies, in 1985. In equipment manufacturers, developers
addition to his most recent role as Career: After joining Swiss Re in and independent software vendors
Citigroup’s President, he was Chief 1996, Ann served as the company’s and artificial intelligence solutions.
Executive Officer of Citigroup’s Chief Financial Officer from 2003 to
Institutional Clients Group. He has 2007. She was also Interim Chief External appointments:
held the positions of Chief Executive Financial Officer of Northern Rock – Independent non-executive Director
of its Securities and Banking division Bank from 2008 to 2009 in the period of BT Group plc
and Head of its Global Markets immediately after its nationalisation. – Independent non-executive Director
business. Ann also has extensive board of Leupold & Stevens, Inc
– Independent non-executive Director
experience, including with FTSE 100
External appointments: of Forrit Holdings Limited
companies, having previously served
– Non-executive Chair of HSBC North
as non-executive Director of
America Holdings Inc
Prudential plc, British American
– Non-executive Chairman of Global
Tobacco plc, UBS AG, UBS Group AG
Bamboo Technologies
and as Senior Independent non-
executive Director of Rio Tinto plc and
Rio Tinto Limited.
External appointments:
– Non-executive Director of HSBC
Bank plc
– Non-executive Director and Chair of
the Audit Committee of Stellantis
N.V.
– Non-executive Director and Chair of
the Audit and Risk Committee of
Shell plc
Corporate
governance

[PAGE 242]

Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
Dr José Antonio Meade Kalpana Morparia (75) Eileen Murray (66)
Kuribreña (55)
Independent non-executive Independent non-executive
Independent non-executive Director Director
Director Appointed to the Board: March 2023 Appointed to the Board: July 2020
Appointed to the Board: March 2019
Workforce engagement non-executive Skills and experience: Kalpana is a Skills and experience: Eileen has
Director since: June 2022 skilled business leader with significant extensive knowledge in financial
experience gained through a 45-year services, technology and corporate
Skills and experience: José has career in banking across Asia, strategy from a career spanning more
extensive experience in public primarily in India. than 40 years.
administration, banking and financial
policy. Career: Kalpana’s most recent Career: Eileen previously served as
executive role was as Chair of J.P. co-Chief Executive Officer of
Career: José has held Cabinet-level Morgan, South and Southeast Asia Bridgewater Associates, LP. Before
positions in the federal government of and a member of J.P. Morgan’s Asia this, she was Chief Executive Officer
Mexico, including as Secretary of executive committee, held until her for Investment Risk Management
Finance and Public Credit, Secretary retirement in 2021. Before J.P. LLC, and President and co-Chief
of Social Development, Secretary of Morgan, she was the Joint Managing Executive Officer of Duff Capital
Foreign Affairs and Secretary of Director of ICICI Bank, India’s second- Advisors. Eileen started her
Energy. Prior to his appointment to largest bank, from 2001 to 2007. She professional career at Morgan
the Cabinet, he served as previously served as a non-executive Stanley, where she held positions
Undersecretary and as Chief of Staff Director of Hindustan Unilever Limited including Controller, Treasurer, and
in the Ministry of Finance and Public and Dr.Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd. Global Head of Technology and
Credit. José is also a former Director Operations, as well as Chief
External appointments:
General of Banking and Savings at the Operating Officer for its Institutional
– Independent non-executive
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit, Securities Group. She was also Head
Director of The Great Eastern
and served as Chief Executive Officer of Global Technology, Operations and
Shipping Company Limited
of the National Bank for Rural Credit. Product Control at Credit Suisse.
– Independent non-executive
Director of Philip Morris
External appointments: External appointments:
– Independent non-executive International Inc – Independent non-executive Director
Director of Alfa S.A.B. de C.V. – Independent Director of Meesho of Guardian Life Insurance
– Independent non-executive Inc Company of America
Director of Grupo Comercial – Member of the Mentor Council of – Independent non-executive Director
Chedraui, S.A.B. de C.V. the Institute for Sustainability, of Broadridge Financial Solutions,
– Independent Member of the Employment and Growth (ISEG Inc
Technical Committee of Fibra Uno Foundation) – Chair of Invisible Urban Charging
Administracion SA de CV – Operating partner of Liberty City
– Board member of the Global Ventures
Center on Adaptation
– Member of the Advisory Board of
the University of California, Centre
for US-Mexican Studies
– Member of the UNICEF Mexico
Advisory Board

[PAGE 243]

Brendan Nelson (75) Swee Lian Teo (65) Aileen Taylor (52)
Group Chief People &
Governance Officer
Independent non-executive Independent non-executive
Appointed: October 2024
Director Director
Appointed to the Board: September Appointed to the Board: October 2023 Skills and experience: Aileen is
2023 a solicitor with significant risk,
Skills and experience: Swee Lian
governance and regulatory
Skills and experience: Brendan brings extensive experience within experience across the banking
brings UK and international financial the international financial services
industry. She is a member of the
and auditing expertise, and significant industry, having previously spent over
European Corporate Governance
experience in auditing and as audit 27 years with the Monetary Authority
Council and the GC100.
committee chair of UK-listed of Singapore (‘MAS‘).
companies. Career: Prior to joining HSBC,
Career: During Swee Lian’s time at
Aileen spent 19 years at the
Career: Brendan spent over 25 years the MAS, she worked in foreign Royal Bank of Scotland Group,
as a partner at KPMG LLP, served on reserves management, financial
holding various legal, risk and
the board from 2000 and as Vice sector development, strategic
compliance roles. She was
Chairman from 2006, until his planning and financial supervision,
appointed Group Secretary in
retirement in 2010. Internationally, he before she became the Deputy
2010 and subsequently Chief
held various senior positions including Managing Director for Financial
Governance Officer and Board
Global Chairman of the financial Supervision. She retired from the
Counsel. Aileen started her HSBC
services practice. Subsequently, MAS in 2015 after serving as Special
career as Group Company
Brendan joined the boards of bp plc Advisor, focused on MAS’s role in the
Secretary and Chief Governance
and NatWest Group plc where he also international regulatory framework, in
Officer in 2019 and has been
served as Chairman of both the Managing Director’s office. Swee
leading connectivity between
companies’ audit committees. Lian previously served as a non-
Board and Executive for over five
executive Director on the boards of
years. Her role was expanded to
During his career, Brendan was AIA Group Limited, Singapore
Group Chief Human Resources
President of the Institute of Chartered Telecommunications Limited and the
and Governance Officer in
Accountants of Scotland, a member Dubai Financial Services Authority.
October 2024 and then became
of the Financial Reporting Review
Group Chief People &
Panel and a member of the Financial External appointments:
Governance Officer. Aileen has
Services Authority's Practitioner – Chair of CapitaLand Integrated
held various industry positions
Panel. As current Chairman of the Commercial Trust Management
such as a member of the
Board of BP Pension Trustees Ltd, Limited
Financial Conduct Authority's
Brendan has received training in ESG – Director of Clifford Capital Pte Ltd
Listing Authority Advisory Panel.
considerations for investment – Director of Clifford Capital Holdings
decisions and helped set an ambition Pte Ltd
to be net zero in terms of greenhouse
gas emissions from investments by
2050.
External appointments:
– Non-executive Director of HSBC UK
Bank plc
– Chairman of BP Pension Trustees
Ltd
Former Directors who served during the year
David Nish
David Nish retired from the Board on 3 May 2024
Sir Noel Quinn
Sir Noel Quinn retired from the Board on 2 September 2024
For full biographical details of our Board members, see
www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/our-people/board-of-directors.
Corporate
governance

[PAGE 244]

Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
Senior management
Senior management, which includes
the Group Operating Committee,
effective from 1 January 2025,
supports the Group CEO in the day-
to-day management of the business
and the implementation
of strategy.
Richard Blackburn (59) Jonathan Calvert-Davies (56)
Interim Group Chief Risk and Group Head of Internal Audit
Compliance Officer
Jonathan is a standing attendee of the
Richard was appointed Interim Group Group Operating Committee, having
Chief Risk and Compliance Officer in joined HSBC as Group Head of
January 2025. He also retains his Internal Audit in October 2019. He has
existing responsibilities as Global over 30 years of experience providing
Head of Traded and Treasury Risk assurance, audit and advisory services
Management & Global Head of Risk to the banking and securities
Analytics. Richard has 35 years’ industries in the UK, the US and
experience in the financial services Europe. Jonathan’s previous roles
sector and has been with HSBC for included leading KPMG UK’s financial
over 20 years. In that time, he has services internal audit services
held a number of senior roles practice and PwC’s UK internal audit
including Regional Chief Risk Officer services practice. He also previously
for Europe and MENAT, Chief Risk & served as interim Group Head of
Compliance Officer for Global Banking Internal Audit at the Royal Bank of
& Markets, Chief Risk & Compliance Scotland Group.
Officer for Global Commercial
Banking, Chief Financial Officer for
Global Markets and Head of Global
Markets Asset & Liability
Management.
Bob Hoyt (60) David Liao (52)
Group Chief Legal Officer Co-Chief Executive,
Asia and Middle East
Bob joined HSBC as Group Chief
Legal Officer in January 2021. He was David was appointed Co-Chief
previously Group General Counsel at Executive of the Asia-Pacific region in
Barclays from 2013 to 2020. Prior to 2021, which was expanded to cover the
that, he was General Counsel and Middle East in January 2025. David,
Chief Regulatory Affairs Officer for who joined HSBC in 1997, has held
PNC Financial Services Group. Bob several senior roles during his HSBC
has served as General Counsel and career including: Head of Global
Senior Policy Adviser to the US Banking Coverage for Asia-Pacific;
Department of the Treasury under President and Chief Executive of HSBC
Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr, and as China; Head of Global Banking and
Special Assistant and Associate Markets, HSBC China; and Treasurer
Counsel to the White House under and Head of Global Markets, HSBC
President George W. Bush. China. He also serves as the Chair of
HSBC Bank (China) Company Limited,
and as a Director of Bank of
Communications Co., Limited and Hang
Seng Bank Limited.

[PAGE 245]

Additional members of the Group
Operating Committee
Georges Elhedery
Pam Kaur
Aileen Taylor
Other Senior Management who
served on the Group Executive
Committee during the year:
– Greg Guyett, former Chief
Barry O’Byrne (49) Michael Roberts (64) Surendra Rosha (56)
Executive Officer Global Banking
Chief Executive Officer, Chief Executive Officer, Co-Chief Executive,
and Markets stepped down as a
International Wealth & Premier HSBC Bank plc, and Corporate Asia and Middle East
Group Executive Committee
Banking and Institutional Banking
Surendra was appointed Co-Chief member on 31 December 2024. He
Barry was appointed Chief Executive Michael was appointed Chief Executive of the Asia-Pacific region in assumed the role of Chair, Strategic
Officer of Wealth and Premier Executive Officer, Corporate and 2021, which was expanded to cover Clients Group on 1 January 2025.
Banking in October 2024. He joined Institutional Banking and Western the Middle East in January 2025. He – Elaine Arden, former Group Chief
HSBC in 2017 firstly as Chief Markets in January 2025. In this role is a Director of The Hongkong and Human Resources Officer stepped
Operating Officer for Global he also holds the role of CEO, HSBC Shanghai Banking Corporation down on 30 September 2024.
Commercial Banking and became Bank plc, the Group’s non-ring-fenced Limited, HSBC Global Asset – John Hinshaw, former Group Chief
Chief Executive Officer in 2019. bank. Michael previously served as Management Limited and HSBC Bank Operating Officer stepped down on
Before joining HSBC, Barry worked at Chief Executive Officer of HSBC US Malaysia Berhad. Surendra joined 30 September 2024.
GE Capital for 19 years where he held and Americas until December 2024. HSBC in 1991 and has held several – Nuno Matos, former Chief
a number of senior leadership roles, Prior to this he held the role of Chief senior positions within Global Banking Executive Officer Wealth and
including Chief Executive Officer and Executive Officer of HSBC USA when and Markets, including Head of Global Personal Banking stepped down on
Chief Operating Officer for GE Capital he joined HSBC in 2019. Prior to Markets in Indonesia and Head of 30 September 2024.
International. joining HSBC, Michael spent over 30 Institutional Sales, Asia-Pacific. He – Colin Bell, former Chief Executive
years at Citigroup in a number of previously held the position of Chief Officer HSBC Bank plc and HSBC
senior leadership roles, most recently Executive for HSBC India and Head of Europe stepped down on
as Global Head of Corporate Banking Financial Institutions Group, Asia- 31 December 2024.
and Capital Management and Chief Pacific. – Dr Celine Herweijer, former Group
Lending Officer. Chief Sustainability Officer stepped
down on 31 December 2024.
– Steve John, former Group Chief
Communications and Brand Officer
stepped down on 31 December
2024.
– Stephen Moss, former Regional
Chief Executive Officer – Middle
East, North Africa and Türkiye
stepped down on 31 December
2024.
– Jonathan Bingham, Global Financial
Controller, served on the Group
Executive Committee as interim
Group Chief Financial Officer from
2 September 2024 to 31 December
2024.
John David Stuart Stuart Riley (50) Suzy White (48) – Jo Miyake attended meetings of
(known as Ian Stuart) (61) Group Chief Information Officer Group Chief Operating Officer the Group Executive Committee as
Chief Executive Officer, interim CEO, Global Commercial
HSBC UK Bank plc Stuart was appointed Group Chief Suzy was appointed Group Chief Banking from 1 October 2024 to
Information Officer in February 2024, Operating Officer in October 2024. 31 December 2024.
Ian has been Chief Executive Officer initially overseeing the Technology Suzy has been with HSBC for more
of HSBC UK Bank plc, the Group’s UK function. In October 2024, he than 25 years and has held a number
ring-fenced bank, since 2017. He assumed responsibilities for data and of senior leadership roles, most
joined HSBC in 2014 and served as analytics, and emerging technology, recently Chief Operating Officer for
Head of Commercial Banking, UK and innovation, and ventures. Prior to Global Banking and Markets. Previous
Europe, until taking up his current joining HSBC, Stuart was Co-Chief roles included Regional Chief
role. Ian has worked over 45 years in Information Officer of Citi, and Operating Officer for Global Markets
financial services, and previously previously held senior technology in the Americas, and Chief Risk
worked at Bank of Scotland, NatWest, roles at Deutsche Bank. He has also Officer for Global Banking and
RBS and Barclays. Ian holds an held the role of Partner at TAG Markets and Commercial Banking in
Honorary Masters and Honorary Consulting, a technology consulting the US.
Doctorate degree for his services to firm.
the banking sector. He is a member of
the UK Finance Board, TheCityUK
Board, the UK Investment Council and
is a business ambassador for
Meningitis Now.
Corporate
governance

[PAGE 246]

Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
Board and senior management diversity
We value difference
We believe that a diverse and inclusive Board, reflective of the communities we serve, is a
critical component of effective decision-making and of developing a sustainable and
successful business for HSBC.
This section outlines the key inclusion metrics for Board members and executive management as at 31 December 2024. The metrics as at 1 January
2025 have also been included to reflect changes to the Board and senior management that took effect from 1 January 2025.
Gender and ethnic representation
In accordance with the requirements of UK Listing Rule 6.6.6 (10) the tables below outline the current gender and ethnic representation of the
HSBC Holdings Board and executive management reflecting data gathered through self-identification.
Gender Identity
As at 31 December 2024 As at 1 January 2025
Executive Executive
Board members management2 Board members management3
Number of Number of
senior senior
Number % positions1 Number % Number % positions1 Number %
Male 6 46 3 15 79 6 43 2 10 77
Female 7 54 1 4 21 8 57 2 3 23
Other — — — — — — — — — —
Not specified/prefer not to say — — — — — — — — — —
Ethnic Background
As at 31 December 2024 As at 1 January 2025
Executive Executive
Board members management2 Board members management3
Number of Number of
senior senior
Number % positions1 Number % Number % positions1 Number %
White British or other White (including
minority-White groups) 8 62 3 13 69 8 57 2 9 69
Mixed/multiple ethnic groups — — — — — — — — — —
Asian/Asian British 3 23 — 4 21 4 29 1 3 23
Black/African/Caribbean/Black British — — — — — — — — — —
Other ethnic groups 2 15 1 1 5 2 14 1 1 8
Not specified/prefer not to say — — — 1 5 — — — — —
1 Senior positions on the Board comprise the Group Chairman, Group CEO, Group CFO and Senior Independent non-executive Director.
2 Executive management comprises the Group Executive Committee members and the Group Head of Internal Audit.
3 Executive management comprises the Group Operating Committee members and the Group Head of Internal Audit.
Skills and experience
Banking 11
As it is essential to the effective governance of the Group, and the
Finance 9
Board’s oversight and challenge of management, the Board ensures
that collectively and individually, the Board possess the necessary
Risk 9
skills, knowledge, expertise and experience.
Customer 7
The summary provides an overview of the skills and experiences held
by the non-executive Directors on the Board. This is based on the
Digital technology 4
current skills matrix, which is reviewed annually by the Nomination &
Corporate Governance Committee to ensure that the Board has the CSR1/ESG 4
skills and experience required to effectively discharge its duties and to
support succession planning discussions. The skills and experiences Direct Asia market experience 6
of the newly appointed non-executive Directors are also included in
the summary. Global business experience 9
1 Corporate Social Responsibility ('CSR')

[PAGE 247]

How we are governed
We are committed to high standards of corporate governance. The A schedule of matters reserved to the Board is set out within its
Group has in place a comprehensive range of policies and procedures, terms of reference, which are available on our website at
which are reviewed on a regular basis, designed to help ensure that www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/our-people/board-of-directors/board-
the Group’s end-to-end governance is well managed, with effective responsibilities. The Board’s powers are subject to relevant laws,
oversight and controls. regulations and HSBC’s articles of association.
Governance highlights 2024 The role of the independent non-executive Directors is to support the
development of strategy, oversee risk, hold management to account
and ensure the executive Directors are discharging their
Appointment of new Group Appointment of new Group CFO
responsibilities properly, while creating the right culture to encourage
CEO
constructive challenge. Further details on the independence of the
Read more on pages 22 and 259 Read more on pages 22, and 259 Board can be found on page 321. Non-executive Directors also review
to 262 to 262 the performance of management in meeting agreed goals and
objectives. The Group Chairman meets with the non-executive
Governance simplification Oversight of organisational Directors without the executive Directors in attendance after Board
changes meetings and otherwise, as necessary.
Read more on pages 22 and 249 Read more on pages 22 to 23 The roles of Group Chairman and Group CEO are held by two
different individuals. There is a clear division of responsibilities
Establishment of new Board Establishment of Group between the leadership of the Board by the Group Chairman, and the
Sustainability Working Group Technology and Operations executive responsibility for day-to-day management of HSBC’s
Committee business undertaken by the Group CEO.
Read more on pages 23, 74 and Read more on pages 249 and The majority of Board members are independent non-executive
249 276 to 278 Directors. As at 31 December 2024, the Board comprised the Group
Chairman, 11 non-executive Directors, and one executive Director
Active stakeholder engagement Revised Directors’ who is the Group CEO. From 1 January 2025, the newly appointed
Remuneration Policy Group CFO will be an executive Director.
Read more on pages 20 to 23 Read more from page 279 For further details of Board members’ career backgrounds, skills, experience
and external appointments, see their biographies on page 237, and for a
breakdown of the diversity and skills of the Board and senior management,
see page 244.
Board and executive governance
Operation of the Board
The Board, led by the Group Chairman, is responsible for, among The Board is ordinarily scheduled to meet nine times a year. In 2024,
other matters: the Board held 10 meetings. For further details on attendance at
those meetings, see page 246. The Board agenda is agreed by the
– promoting the Group’s long-term success and delivering Group Chairman, working with both the Group CEO and the Group
sustainable value to shareholders; Company Secretary. For further information, see ’Board matters
– establishing and approving the Group’s strategy and objectives, considered’ on page 251.
and monitoring the alignment of the Group’s purpose, strategy and
The Group Chief People & Governance Officer (who is also the duly
values with the desired culture and standards;
appointed Group Company Secretary), the Group Chief Risk and
– setting the Group’s risk appetite and monitoring the Group’s risk Compliance Officer and the Group Chief Legal Officer were regular
profile; attendees at Board meetings during 2024. The non-executive
– approving and monitoring capital and financial resource plans for Chairman of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation
achieving strategic objectives, including material transactions; Limited was also a regular attendee at Board meetings. The chief
executive officers of the three global businesses often attended
– considering and approving the Group’s technology and
Board strategy discussions, and other senior executives attended
environmental, social and governance strategies;
Board meetings for specific items as and when requested by the
– reviewing the effectiveness of stakeholder engagement Board.
mechanisms, including engagement with the workforce;
In addition, as agreed by the Board, the Board Oversight Sub-Group is
– approving the appointment and remuneration of Directors,
called on an ad hoc basis where necessary. Such meetings are an
including Board roles;
informal mechanism for a smaller group of Board members and
– reviewing the Group’s overall corporate governance arrangements; management to discuss emerging issues and upcoming Board
and matters.
– providing entrepreneurial leadership of the Group within a
framework of prudent and effective controls, which enable risks to
be assessed and managed.
Corporate
governance

[PAGE 248]

Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
Board roles, responsibilities and meeting attendance
The table below sets out the Board members’ respective roles, responsibilities and attendance at Board meetings and the AGM in 2024. For a
full description of key Board members’ responsibilities, see www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/our-people.
Board
attendance in
Roles 20241 Responsibilities
Group Chairman – Provides effective leadership of the Board and promotes the highest standards of corporate governance practices.
Sir Mark E Tucker2,4 11/11 – Leads the Board in providing strong strategic oversight and setting the Board’s agenda, culture and values.
– Leads the Board in challenging management’s thinking and proposals, and fosters open and constructive debate
among Directors.
– Maintains internal and external relationships with key stakeholders, and communicates investors’ views to the
Board.
– Organises periodic monitoring and evaluation, including externally facilitated evaluation, of the performance of the
Board, its committees and individual Directors.
– Leads on succession planning for the Board and its committees, ensuring appointments reflect diverse cultures,
skills and experiences.
Executive Director – Leads and directs the fulfilment of the Group’s purpose and strategy, in alignment with the desired culture and
Group CEO values as set by the Board.
Sir Noel Quinn4,6 7/7 – Leads the senior executive committee with responsibility for the day-to-day leadership and management of the
Georges Elhedery4,6,7 4/4 Group, in accordance with the authority delegated to him from the Board.
– Maintains effective relationships with key internal and external stakeholders including the Group Chairman, the
Board, customers, regulators, governments and investors.
– Maintains accountability for the Group’s compliance with applicable laws, codes, rules and regulations, good
market practice and HSBC’s own standards, value and policies.
Executive Director – Supports the Group CEO in developing and implementing the Group strategy, and recommends the annual budget
Group CFO and long-term strategic and financial resource plan.
Georges Elhedery4,6,7 7/7 – Leads the Finance function and is responsible for effective financial and regulatory reporting, including the
Jonathan Bingham7 4/4 effectiveness of the processes and controls, to ensure the financial control framework is robust and fit for
purpose.
– Maintains relationships with key stakeholders including shareholders.
Non-executive Director – Supports the Group Chairman, acting as intermediary for non-executive Directors when necessary.
Senior Independent – Leads the non-executive Directors in the oversight of the Group Chairman, supporting the clear division of
Director responsibility between the Group Chairman and the Group CEO.
David Nish3,4,,5 5/5 – Listens to shareholders’ views if they have concerns that cannot be resolved through the normal channels.
Ann Godbehere3,4,5 11/11
Non-executive Directors – Develop and approve the Group strategy.
Geraldine Buckingham3,4 11/11 – Challenge and oversee the performance of management in achieving agreed corporate goals and objectives.
Rachel Duan3,4,8 10/11 – Approve the Group’s risk appetite and review risk profile and performance.
Dame Carolyn Fairbairn3,4 11/11 – Contribute to the assessment and monitoring of culture.
James Forese3,4 11/11 – Maintain internal and external relationships with the Group’s key stakeholders.
Steven Guggenheimer3,4 11/11
-
Dr José Antonio Meade 11/11
Kuribreña3,4
Kalpana Morparia3,4 11/11
Eileen Murray3,4,8 10/11
Brendan Nelson3,4 11/11
Swee Lian Teo3,4 11/11
Group Chief People & – Maintains strong and consistent governance practices at Board level and throughout the Group.
Governance Officer – Supports the Group Chairman in ensuring effective functioning of the Board and its committees, and transparent
(duly appointed Group engagement between senior management and non-executive Directors.
Company Secretary) – Facilitates induction and professional development of non-executive Directors.
Aileen Taylor – Advises and supports the Board and management in ensuring effective end-to-end governance and decision
making across the Group.
1 The total number of meetings comprises nine scheduled meetings, one ad hoc meeting and the AGM.
2 The non-executive Group Chairman was considered to be independent on appointment.
3 Independent non-executive Director. All of the non-executive Directors are considered to be independent. There are no relationships or circumstances that are
likely to affect any individual non-executive Director’s objective judgement. All non-executive Directors have confirmed their independence during the year.
4 Attended the AGM on 3 May 2024. Kalpana Morparia attended virtually.
5 David Nish retired from the Board with effect from 3 May 2024 and was succeeded as the Board’s senior independent non-executive Director on that date by
Ann Godbehere.
6 Sir Noel Quinn retired from the Board with effect from 2 September 2024 and was succeeded as Group CEO on that date by Georges Elhedery.
7 Georges Elhedery stepped down from his role as Group CFO with effect from 2 September 2024 and Jonathan Bingham was appointed interim Group CFO on
that date. Jonathan Bingham was not appointed as an executive Director. From 1 January 2025, Pam Kaur was appointed as an executive Director and assumed
the role of Group CFO.
8 Due to prior commitments, Eileen Murray was unable to attend the Board meeting in September 2024 and Rachel Duan was unable to attend the ad hoc Board
meeting held in October 2024.

[PAGE 249]

Relationship between the Board and Subsidiary governance
senior management
We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate
governance throughout the Group. All subsidiary boards and their
The Board delegates day-to-day management of the business and
respective businesses are required to have in place effective
implementation of strategy to the Group CEO. During the year, the
governance arrangements with regard to the businesses’ nature, size,
incumbent Group CEO was supported in his management of the
location and the sectors in which they operate.
Group by recommendations and advice from the Group Executive
Committee (’GEC’), an executive forum comprising members of The subsidiary accountability
senior management that included chief executive officers of the
global businesses and regions, as well as functional heads. With framework
effect from 1 January 2025, the Group CEO is supported in his role by
the Group Operating Committee (‘Group OpCo’) in place of the GEC. The subsidiary accountability framework aims to balance appropriate
The Group CEO reports to the Board on Group OpCo meetings' governance oversight by the Group with each subsidiary’s local legal
outcomes and other executive matters of note relevant for the Board. and regulatory requirements. The framework supports the Group in
For further details of the senior management team, see page 242. promoting effective governance arrangements across its subsidiaries
by:
All Directors are encouraged to have contact with management at all
levels and have full access to management information as may be – setting out high-level principles to enhance communications and
required. Visits to local business operations and meetings with local connectivity; and
management are arranged for the non-executive Directors, alongside – ensuring a shared and consistent understanding of the Group’s
the executive Directors, when they attend Board meetings in different strategic objectives, culture and values.
locations, and when travelling for other reasons. Senior management
often attend Directors’ engagements and receive updates from the The subsidiary accountability framework also focuses on ensuring that
workforce engagement non-executive Director, José Meade. For each subsidiary is led by an effective board with an appropriate
further details, see ’The Board's engagement with the workforce’ on balance of skills, diversity, experience and knowledge, having regard
page 254. to the nature of the subsidiary’s business and local legal and
regulatory requirements. Board composition of the Group’s
Executive governance subsidiaries is kept under review as part of succession planning. The
Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee reviews the
Throughout 2024, the GEC promoted the culture, as led and overseen
succession plans of principal subsidiaries, and principal subsidiaries
by the Board, across the organisation by demonstrating the right tone
review the succession plans for their own subsidiaries, as appropriate.
from the top. The GEC modelled our values through their everyday
behaviours, fostering a culture that delivered against our purpose of The framework is subject to periodic review by the Board and/or the
opening up a world of opportunity. At its meetings, the GEC Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee and updated as
dedicated time to reflect on how they had demonstrated our purpose required to ensure it is aligned to regulatory requirements and best
and values in the day-to-day course of business. practices. A comprehensive internal review of the framework was
undertaken in 2024 with the outputs reported to the Nomination &
The GEC’s operating rhythm helped to facilitate end-to-end
Corporate Governance Committee. A number of improvements were
governance between senior leadership and the Board. The operating
made to the framework to provide greater clarity and additional
rhythm had the following three pillars:
guidance for subsidiaries.
– regular check-in meetings to review and discuss current and
The role of principal subsidiaries
emerging trends and issues;
– a monthly meeting to review the performance of each of the Certain subsidiaries are designated formally by the Board as principal
global businesses in principal geographies and legal entities, subsidiaries. In addition to their obligations under their respective local
supported by strategic key performance indicators; and laws and regulations, principal subsidiaries – supported by regional
company secretaries – perform a critical role in ensuring effective and
– a strategy- and governance-focused meeting, held in advance of
high standards of governance across the Group and in overseeing the each Board meeting.
implementation of the subsidiary accountability framework in the
Separate committees have been established to provide specialist regions for which they are responsible.
oversight for matters delegated to the Group CEO and senior
Representatives from principal subsidiaries attend the Board and its
management. For further details of these committees, see page 249.
committee meetings for relevant topics, including when the Board
To further support our senior management, we have dedicated holds meetings outside of the UK. Chairs of principal subsidiaries’ risk
company secretaries and corporate governance officers who support and audit committees are invited to attend relevant Group Risk
and advise legal entities, global businesses and global functions on Committee and Group Audit Committee meetings. Attendance and
our corporate governance practices. These roles serve to strengthen participation at these meetings enhances subsidiary directors’
the consistency and effectiveness of our end-to-end governance understanding of the challenges facing the Group and helps to identify
arrangements, and support connectivity and information sharing. common challenges and facilitates the sharing of lessons learned.
Such committee participation supplements the regular reports,
From 1 January 2025 the GEC has been replaced by the Group certifications and escalations from principal subsidiaries’ boards and
Operating Committee (‘Group OpCo’), whose key focus has been their respective committees to the Board and relevant committee(s)
establishing clear lines of accountability and enabling the Group to of the Board.
execute our strategy at pace.
The Group Chairman interacts regularly with the chairs of the principal
The Group OpCo serves as the leading executive decision-making subsidiaries, including through the Chairman’s Forum. The Chairman’s
committee and supports the Group CEO in discharging his Forum comprises the chairs of each of the principal subsidiaries, the
responsibilities for the management and delivery of Group strategy. Group’s senior independent non-executive Director, the chairs of the
Group’s audit, risk and remuneration committees, and where relevant,
In support of the ambition to simplify HSBC, the Nomination &
the Group CEO, other non-executive Directors and members of
Corporate Governance Committee endorsed a new Group
executive management, advisers and/or external experts.
Governance Framework and Operating Rhythm, which will be
implemented throughout the organisation in 2025.
Corporate
governance

[PAGE 250]

Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
In 2024, the Chairman’s Forum covered topics such as strategic Subsidiary director development
business considerations, geopolitical issues and economic outlook,
shareholder engagements, Group-wide connectivity of non-executive The Group is dedicated to supporting the continuing professional
Directors, key regulatory themes, employee engagement and financial development of its subsidiary directors. A global non-executive
performance. director update was held in September 2024, which was attended by
subsidiary non-executive directors from across the Group. Updates
The Group Remuneration Committee Chair hosted dedicated forums were provided by the Group Chairman and Group CEO, along with
with the chairs of principal subsidiaries to share key priorities for 2024 presentations on net zero transition, digital acceleration, AI and
and the future. These sessions provided an opportunity for review and geopolitics.
input on proposed pay outcomes and allocation, before approval by
the Group Remuneration Committee. The Bank Director Programme (launched in 2022), is designed to
prepare HSBC executives and senior managers to assume roles as
The principal subsidiaries are: internal non-executive directors on our subsidiary boards. The
programme covers six modules: governance and the role of a bank
Principal subsidiary Oversight responsibility director; finance, capital and liquidity management; risk and
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Asia-Pacific regulation; strategy, leadership and culture; ESG and managing
Corporation Limited stakeholders; and technology and operations. The programme was
HSBC Bank plc Europe and Bermuda (excluding delivered for a second time in 2024 to a cohort of 26 participants
UK ring-fenced activities) selected from across the Group. Many of those colleagues who have
HSBC UK Bank plc UK ring-fenced bank and its completed the programme have already taken up positions as internal
subsidiaries non-executive directors on Group subsidiary boards.
HSBC Middle East Holdings BV Middle East, North Africa and
Türkiye During 2024 we launched our inaugural Bank Chair Programme with a
HSBC North America Holdings Inc. US group of subsidiary board and committee chairs from across our
regions. The programme represents a significant investment in
HSBC Latin America Holdings (UK) Mexico and Latin America
Limited subsidiary director development and is sponsored by the Group
Chairman together with the Group Chief People & Governance
Officer. It is a unique and forward-looking initiative, focused on
developing our ‘chairs of the future‘ and equipping them to lead ‘best-
in-class’ subsidiary boards and committees at HSBC. Part one of the
programme was delivered in November 2024 and comprised three
modules covering: the challenges faced by board and committee
chairs; the evolving role of the chair; and navigating regulatory
priorities.

[PAGE 251]

Board and Group executive committees and working groups
The Board delegates oversight of certain audit, risk, remuneration, The structure below sets out the current committees and working
nomination, technology and governance matters to its committees, groups at the Board and Group Executive level as at 31 December
which are each chaired by a non-executive Director. Only the Group 2024. The key changes in the year include:
Chairman and the independent non-executive Directors are members
The Board Sustainability Working Group (‘SWG‘) was established,
of Board committees. Members of the senior management team
with effect from October 2024, to enhance the Board’s oversight of
attend Board committee meetings, as appropriate. Details of the
sustainability matters. For more information on the role and function
responsibilities and work carried out by each of the Board committees
of this working group please refer to ‘Board decision-making and
can be found in the respective committee reports starting on page
engagement with stakeholders‘ on page 23.
259.
On 25 January 2024, the Board approved that the Technology
The Chairman’s Committee is an ad hoc committee, which provides
Working Group be demised and, in its place, established the creation
the Board with the opportunity to consider time-critical matters
of the Group Technology Committee (‘GTC’), effective from March
between scheduled Board meetings. All Board members are invited
2024. The GTC was delegated responsibility to oversee the Group’s
to attend Chairman’s Committee meetings.
technology strategy and its alignment with the wider global strategy
In addition to the Board committees, bespoke working groups have of the Group. In December 2024, the remit of the GTC (renamed the
been established as an informal mechanism for smaller groups of Group Technology and Operations Committee (‘GTOC‘)) was
Board members and senior management to meet to discuss extended to cover oversight of global operations.
emerging issues and upcoming Board matters, as appropriate.
The Board also approved a proposal from the Group CEO to combine
The GEC established a number of committees to support the senior the Group‘s executive level ESG Committee and Sustainability
management during 2024 in their running of the business and provide Execution Committee, with effect from October 2024. For more
specialist oversight for matters delegated to them, including capital information on this Committee please refer to ‘Board matters
and liquidity, risk management, disclosure and financial reporting, considered on page 251‘.
restructuring and investment considerations, transformation
In addition, the Board approved that the GEC of 18 members be
oversight, ESG matters and talent and development. These
simplified and replaced by a new Group Operating Committee
committees also help fulfil their responsibilities under the Senior
comprised of 12 members, with effect from 1 January 2025
Managers and Certification Regime.
(www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/our-people/senior-management).
Board
Chair: Sir Mark Tucker
Nomination & Informal
Group Group Technology
Chairman’s Corporate Group Audit Group Risk Governance
Remuneration and Operations
Committee Governance Committee Committee
Committee Committee
Committee
Board Oversight
Chair: Sir Mark Chair: Sir Mark Chair: Brendan Chair: James Chair: Dame Sub-Group
Chair: Eileen Murray
Tucker Tucker Nelson Forese Carolyn Fairbairn Chair: Sir Mark
Tucker
Sustainability
Working Group
See page 259 See page 263 See page 271 See page 279 See page 2
76 Chair: Geraldine
Buckingham
Group Executive Committee
Chair: Georges Elhedery1
Change Environmental,
Acquisitions and Group Disclosure Group Risk Holdings Asset
Group People Prioritisation and Social and
Disposals and Controls Management and Liabilities
Committee Oversight Governance
Committee Committee Meeting Committee
Committee Committee
Co-Chairs:
Chair: Georges Chair: Jonathan Chair: Aileen Chair: Jonathan Chair: Jonathan Jonathan Bingham
Chair: Pam Kaur3
Elhedery Bingham2 Taylor Bingham2 Bingham2 and Celine
Herweijer4
1 With effect from 2 September 2024, the role of Chair changed from Sir Noel Quinn to Georges Elhedery and with effect from 1 January 2025 the GEC was
replaced by the Group Operating Committee and committees reporting into it are under review.
2 Pam Kaur appointed as Chair with effect from 1 January 2025.
3 Richard Blackburn appointed as Chair with effect from 1 January 2025.
4 With effect from 2 September 2024, Jonathan Bingham succeeded Georges Elhedery as Co-Chair and Pam Kaur appointed as sole Chair with effect from
1 January 2025.
Corporate
governance

[PAGE 252]

Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
Board induction and training
The Board recognises the importance of induction and training for its Following this training, both Georges Elhedery and Pam Kaur
Directors. The Group Chief People & Governance Officer works with confirmed their understanding of their obligations as directors of a
the Group Chairman to ensure that, on appointment, new Directors listed issuer pursuant to Rule 3.09D of the Hong Kong Listing Rules.
are provided with tailored and comprehensive induction programmes
The approach to training is agreed annually, with key topics agreed for
appropriate to their individual experiences and needs, including the
2024 including cybersecurity, media interaction and the UK’s Senior
process for managing conflicts. To ensure Directors’ contribution to
Manager and Certification Regime. Training sessions were facilitated
the Board remains informed and relevant, all Board members receive
by both internal subject matter experts and by external presenters.
appropriate training, both individually and collectively, throughout their
time served on the Board.
Directors were also issued with training modules, which mirrored the
mandatory training undertaken by employees. During 2024, this
The Group Chief People & Governance Officer also helps to arrange
training covered topics including risk management, sustainability,
and deliver the induction programme for new Board members,
health and safety, well-being, cyber-security, financial crime, and
through formal briefings and introductory sessions with other Board
conduct.
members, senior management, legal counsel, auditors, tax advisers
and regulators, as appropriate. Topics covered in the induction
Non-executive Directors also discussed individual development areas
programme include but are not limited to: purpose and values; culture
with the Group Chairman as part of their ongoing performance
and leadership; governance and stakeholder management; Directors’
discussions regarding their contributions on the Board. The Group
legal and regulatory duties; recovery and resolution planning; anti-
Chief People & Governance Officer makes appropriate arrangements
money laundering and anti-bribery; technical and business briefings;
for any additional training needs identified using internal resources, or
and strategy.
otherwise, at HSBC’s expense.
The induction process is often initiated before appointment to allow
Members of Board committees receive relevant training as
each new Board member to contribute meaningfully from
appropriate. Further details on any specific training commissioned by
appointment. The structure of the induction supports good
Board committees can be found in the respective committee reports
information flows within the Board and its committees, as well as
from page 259 onward. Directors may take independent professional
between senior management and non-executive Directors, providing
advice at HSBC’s expense.
a clear understanding of our culture and way of operating.
Board Directors who serve on principal subsidiary boards receive
Prior to his appointment as Group CEO becoming effective, Georges
training that is pertinent to circumstances and context relevant to
Elhedery received relevant training and legal advice from a firm of
those boards. Opportunities exist for the principal subsidiaries'
solicitors on 15 August 2024. Prior to her appointment as Group CFO,
committee chairs to share their understanding of specific areas with
Pam Kaur received relevant training and legal advice from a firm of
the Directors as part of the Chairman’s Forum. For further details, see
solicitors on 11 December 2024.
’The role of principal subsidiaries’ on page 247.
Directors’ induction and ongoing development in 2024
Corporate
governance, ESG Board global
Strategy and Risk and and other mandatory
Director Induction business briefings2 control3 reporting matters4 training5
Geraldine Buckingham u u u u u
Rachel Duan u u u u u
Georges Elhedery1 u u u u u
Dame Carolyn Fairbairn u u u u u
James Forese u u u u u
Ann Godbehere u u u u u
Steven Guggenheimer u u u u u
José Antonio Meade Kuribreña u u u u u
Kalpana Morparia u u u u u
Eileen Murray u u u u u
Brendan Nelson u u u u u
Swee Lian Teo u u u u u
Sir Mark Tucker u u u u u
u Matter considered u Matter not considered
1 As part of the transition from Group CFO to Group CEO, Georges Elhedery completed an induction and development plan.
2 Directors participated in business strategy, market development and business briefings, which are global, regional and/or market-specific. Examples of specific
sessions held in 2024 included: ’Technology and the future of artificial intelligence’, ’WPB customer-centricity improvement plan’, and ’Investor sentiments’.
3 Directors received risk and control training and briefings. Examples of specific sessions held in 2024 included: ’Cybersecurity’ and ’The UK’s Senior Manager
Certification Regime’.
4 Directors received training on the UK’s Senior Managers’ and Certification Regime as well as development updates at Board meetings on: ’Board stakeholder
engagement and management’ and ESG matters including regulatory changes. Directors received additional training through their attendance at forums such as
the Chairman’s Forum, Remuneration Committee Chairs’ Forum and the Global Non-Executive Director Update.
5 Training modules, issued to all Directors, mirrored training undertaken by employees. This included: risk management, sustainability, health and safety, well-
being, cybersecurity, financial crime and conduct and values, personal conflicts of interest, data quality, privacy and security and AI and our changing world.

[PAGE 253]

Board matters considered
During 2024, the Board remained focused on HSBC’s strategic direction and delivery, and overseeing Group performance. It considered
performance against financial and other strategic objectives, key business challenges, emerging risks, sustainability and governance, business
development, investor relations and the Group’s relationships with its stakeholders. The end-to-end governance framework facilitated discussion
on strategy and performance by each of the global businesses and across the principal geographical areas, which enabled the Board to support
executive management with its delivery of the Group’s strategy. The Board considers the impacts of its decision making on the Group’s
stakeholders and examples of how the Board has taken principal strategic decisions.
Board matters considered in 2024
Meetings at which topics were discussed1
Main topic Sub-topic Jan Feb Mar May Jun Jul Sep Oct Nov Dec
Strategy Group strategy u u u u u u u u u u
Regional strategy/global business strategy u u u u u u u u u u
Environmental, social and governance strategies u u u u u u u u u u
Business and financial Region/global business u u u u u u u u u u
performance Financial performance u u u u u u u u u u
Financial Results and accounts1 u u u u u u u u u u
Dividends u u u u u u u u u u
Group financial resource planning u u u u u u u u u u
Risk Risk update u u u u u u u u u u
Risk appetite u u u u u u u u u u
Capital and liquidity adequacy u u u u u u u u u u
Regulatory Regulatory and legal matters2 u u u u u u u u u u
Regulatory matters with regulators in attendance3 u u u u u u u u u u
External External insights4 u u u u u u u u u u
Technology Strategic and operational u u u u u u u u u u
People and culture Purpose, values and engagement u u u u u u u u u u
Governance Policies, terms of reference and delegations of
u u u u u u u u u u
authority
Board/committee effectiveness u u u u u u u u u u
Appointments and conflicts of interest u u u u u u u u u u
Stakeholder/workforce engagement u u u u u u u u u u
AGM and resolutions u u u u u u u u u u
u Matter considered u Matter not considered
1 No Board meetings were held during April and August 2024. An ad hoc board meeting was held in October 2024.
2 Includes recovery and resolution planning, modern slavery and human trafficking, UK regulatory activities, and listing authority renewals.
3 Meetings attended by members of the Prudential Regulation Authority.
4 Includes presentations and/or talks from external parties, for example government officials or regulators.
Key areas of focus
The Board’s key areas of focus in 2024 are set out by theme below. Environmental, social and governance
Strategy and business performance In October 2020, we announced our ambition to become a net zero
bank by 2050. We believe supporting our customers’ transition
The Group remains focused on building a sustainable platform for
benefits their businesses and helps generate long-term financial
growth by increasing returns for investors, enhancing customer
returns for our shareholders.
service, and creating capacity for future investment. In 2024, the
Board reviewed progress within the Group’s global businesses and The Board has overall responsibility for ESG strategy, overseeing
regions against its agreed strategy. At each Board meeting, the Board executive management in developing the approach, execution, and
discussed the Group’s strategic performance and opportunities to associated reporting. To support senior leadership in the delivery of
track strategic execution and delivery. the ESG strategy, with effect from October 2024, the Board
established a new sustainability working group, the SWG, comprised
There was a continued focus in 2024 to build upon efforts to re-shape
of five non-executive Directors. This working group engages with
the Group to align with areas of strength in key markets. Disposals
executive management on sustainability matters and provides
such as those completed in Canada and Argentina, and in progress in
oversight and guidance in relation to the Group’s sustainability
Germany, allow for a renewed focus on businesses that more closely
activities. The SWG was actively involved in the consideration of our
align with the Group’s strategic aims, and support resource allocation
approach to net zero transition, covered in more detail within our ESG
to provide the strongest competitive advantage to ultimately benefit
overview on page 15.
the wider Group and its customers.
During the year, the Board also oversaw the rationalisation of the ESG
Upon his appointment, the new Group CEO has been driving a more
Committee and Sustainability Execution Committee into a single
dynamic organisational structure, to set the Group up to accelerate
governance body (named the ESG Committee). These Board and
delivery of its strategic objectives and drive the next phase of its
executive level governance forums support senior management in the
growth and development. Together, the executive team and the
operationalisation of the Group’s sustainability strategy, through the
Board work to ensure that strategic decisions taken capitalise on
oversight of the sustainability execution programme. For further
opportunities that will work to drive profitability for shareholders and
details see page 74. In 2024, the Board oversaw the implementation
efficiencies with a more streamlined Group structure.
of ESG strategy through regular dashboard reports and detailed
updates including: review and approval of the net zero transition plan;
deep dives on the sustainability execution programme; and updates
on human rights.
Corporate
governance

[PAGE 254]

Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
Financial decisions The Board also reviewed and monitored the implications of
geopolitical and macroeconomic developments during the year, both
The Board and its dedicated committees approved key financial directly and by way of updates from the Group Risk Committee, and
Accounts 2023, the Interim Report 2024 and the first quarter and the relation to financial crime risk.
third quarter Earnings Releases. In January 2024, the Board approved
the 2024 financial resource plan. The Board monitored the Group’s Technology
performance against the approved plan, as well as the plans of each
Throughout the year, the Board received updates on technology and
of the global businesses. The Board also approved the renewal of the
innovation from the Group Chief Operating Officer and Group Chief
various debt issuance programmes.
Information Officer. These included regular updates on the
As previously communicated, we established and achieved a target programme established to simplify the Group’s technology
dividend payout ratio of 50% of earnings per ordinary share (’EPS’) for infrastructure, enhance system resilience, and accelerate digital
2023 and 2024, excluding the special dividend. EPS for this purpose transformation across the bank, following recommendations from the
excludes material notable items and related impacts. Material notable third-party review of technology strategy conducted in 2023.
items in 2023 and 2024 included the sale of our businesses in Canada
The Technology Governance Working Group was demised on
and Argentina, the sale of our retail banking operations in France, the
1 March 2024, and the Group Technology Committee (‘GTC‘) became
gain following the acquisition of SVB UK and the impairment of our
effective from the same date. Since its establishment, the GTC has
investment in BoCom. We also exclude HSBC Bank Canada‘s
supported the Board in overseeing execution of the technology
financial results from the 30 June 2022 net asset reference date until
strategy with a focus on areas where technology is fundamental to
completion on 29 March 2024, as the gain on sale was recognised
strategic delivery including technology architecture, innovation, data
through a combination of the consolidation of HSBC Bank Canada‘s
and cybersecurity. In December 2024, the remit of the GTC (renamed
results in the Group‘s results since this date, and the remaining gain
the Group Technology and Operations Committee (‘GTOC‘)) was
on sale recognised at completion, inclusive of the recycling of related
extended to cover oversight of global operations, reflecting changes
reserves and fair value gains on related hedges. The Board has
to the Group’s organisational structure and in recognition of the
adopted a dividend policy designed to provide sustainable cash
importance of operations to delivery of the Group’s strategy. The
dividends, while retaining the flexibility to invest and grow the
Board received regular updates from the Chair of GTOC during the
business in the future, supplemented by additional shareholder
year. For further details of matters considered at GTOC, refer to the
distributions, if appropriate. The Board has established a target
Group Technology and Operations Committee Report on page 276.
dividend payout ratio of 50% for 2025, subject to meeting capital
requirements. In addition to dividend payments, HSBC announced a
People and culture
share buy-back of up to $2bn on 22 February 2024 and further share
buy-backs of up to $3bn on 7 May 2024, 1 August 2024 and
The Board is responsible for setting and monitoring the desired
30 October 2024, bringing the total announced during 2024 to $11bn.
culture of the Group and dedicates time to people and culture related
On 21 February 2024, an interim dividend of $0.31 per share for the matters at Board and Committee meetings and in its engagements
2023 full-year was announced, followed by a special dividend of $0.21 with management and the wider workforce.
per share on 30 April 2024 and interim dividends of $0.10 each
Each scheduled Board meeting begins with a ’culture moment’,
announced on 30 April 2024, 31 July 2024 and 29 October 2024. For
which helps to ensure that the right cultural tone is set from the top
further details of dividend payments, see page 439.
and establishes the right cultural context for Board discussion. To help
Risk, regulatory and legal raise its awareness of employee and other stakeholder perspectives,
Board meetings and dedicated reports feature insights into
considerations behaviours within the Group, which demonstrate alignment to its
purpose and values. Board papers highlight relevant stakeholder
The Board, advised by the Group Risk Committee, promotes a strong considerations, including in connection with its workforce. The Board
risk governance culture that shapes the Group’s risk appetite and also gains valuable cultural insights through its many personal
supports the maintenance of a strong risk management framework, interactions with the workforce and other stakeholders. For further
giving consideration to the measurement, evaluation, acceptance and details see ‘Directors’ engagements with key stakeholders in 2024’
management of risks, including emerging risks. on page 20.
The Board considered the Group’s approach to risk including its Additionally, the Board receives cultural insights from the all-
regulatory obligations. A number of key frameworks, control employee Snapshot survey and broader reporting, which provides key
documents, core processes and legal responsibilities were also data indicators, including on peoples' behaviours, sentiment and
reviewed and approved as required by the Board and/or its relevant business outcomes. Following her appointment as Group Chief
committees. These included: People & Governance Officer, Aileen Taylor has also introduced a new
people and governance report that will be presented to the Board on a
– the Group’s risk appetite framework and risk appetite statement;
regular basis to help ensure that they have sight over such matters
– the individual liquidity adequacy assessment process; within the Group.
– the individual capital adequacy assessment process;
The governance structure supporting the Board further facilitates
– the Group’s obligations under the Modern Slavery Act and effective oversight of key people and culture matters. Through the
approval of the Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement; work of the Group Audit Committee, the Board monitors the nature of
risk and control culture across the Group and sees the impact of its
– the Group Recovery Plan;
policies and practices and how they are embedded, through reports
– the efficacy of Model Risk Management (’MRM’) activities within on matters such as whistleblowing, code of conduct breaches and
the Bank; investigations (for further information see the Group Audit Committee
– the Group’s risk data aggregation and risk reporting framework report on page 263).
aligned to the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision 239
The Directors also learn about people and culture matters by way of
Principles;
presentations at the Chairman’s Forum. The principal subsidiary chairs
– the Group’s PRA Operational Resilience self-assessment report on their respective approaches to workforce engagement as
regulatory submission; well as what they have learned from such engagements and other
cultural insights.
– the internal controls framework; and
– the revised matters reserved to the Board and terms of reference
for the Board committees.

[PAGE 255]

Each of the non-executive Directors is aligned to one or more of our The Board and senior management continued to support further
Group Employee Resource Groups (’ERGs’): Ability, Balance, improvements to various governance initiatives to encourage
Embrace, Generations, Nurture and Pride. Attending ERG events simplification and promote effective decision making in the business.
provides Directors with opportunities to hear directly from employees Guidance and training for Board and committee paper templates
on matters of cultural importance to the Group. Board engagement remained a focus in 2024 for global businesses and functions. In
with management and the wider workforce continued to remain a particular, a training session sponsored by the Group Chairman and
strong area of attention, particularly with the ongoing activities carried the Group CEO took place to ensure that standards remained
out by the dedicated workforce engagement non-executive Director consistent and accurate across the Group. Additionally, the Group-
and in respect of the changes to the Group’s leadership. For further wide delegations of authority framework was reviewed and approved
details of the work carried out by the workforce engagement non- by the Board and its relevant subsidiaries in February 2024. This
executive Director, see page 254. decision was key to driving efficiencies in the execution of contracts
and documents by directors and senior management.
Governance
The Board, supported by the Nomination & Corporate Governance
During the year, the Board continued to oversee the overall Committee, reviews the skills and experience of the Directors on an
governance of the Group. There are processes in place to ensure that ongoing basis. This ensures that the composition of the Board and its
the Board and its Committees receive timely and relevant information Committees comprise the necessary skills, diversity, experience and
pertaining to Group governance matters and that this information is competencies to discharge their responsibilities effectively. For
duly considered at the appropriate level. The Board allocated time at further details of the review and changes to the Board, see the
its scheduled meetings for Group governance matters and, during the Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee report on page 259.
year, these included regular reports on the activities of its For further details of diversity of the Board, see page 244.
Committees, reviews of Directors’ conflicts of interest, the review
and approval of delegations of authority for specific Treasury matters
and review of the broader Group Delegated Authority Framework, and
oversight of the Board’s annual effectiveness review.
The Board has due regard to its oversight of Group governance,
including compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and
the Hong Kong Corporate Governance Code and the duties of
directors under the Companies Act 2006, when taking decisions. For
examples of Board decision making, see ’Board decision making and
engagement with stakeholders’ on page 20.
Corporate
governance

[PAGE 256]

Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
The Board’s engagement with the workforce
The Board is committed to engaging with the Group’s workforce,
96 7,000+
which takes place in a variety of ways across many forums, including
small-scale exchange sessions and larger town halls. These
interactions allow the Board to have meaningful engagement with Virtual/physical sessions Number of employees engaged
colleagues and gain insights from the workforce which inform Board attended by non-executive physically/virtually
discussion and decision-making. These engagements also provide Directors
colleagues with the opportunity to share ideas and feedback on topics
that are important to them with the Board directly.
9 55
It is the responsibility of all Directors to engage with colleagues, and
the Board’s dedicated workforce engagement non-executive Director,
José Meade, leads on the delivery of such engagements. The Board Countries where in-person Virtual/physical sessions attended by
recognises that a dedicated non-executive director, that champions engagement took place and workforce engagement non-
workforce engagement, presents an inclusive opportunity to help many more virtually executive Director
ensure that the employee voice is being considered and accounted
for in Board decision-making. For further examples of how members 4,600+
of the Board have engaged with a variety of our stakeholders outside
of the workforce engagement programme please see ‘Board decision
making and engagement with stakeholders’ on page 20. Number of employees engaged virtually/physically by workforce
engagement non-executive Director
The Board’s workforce engagement programme
In early 2024, the Board agreed a workforce engagement programme When designing the programme at the start of 2024, it took into
designed to ensure that Directors were afforded various opportunities account the Group’s key strategic areas of focus in place at the time
to interact with colleagues across the Group. A non-exhaustive extract and thereby worked to complement the Board’s priorities and agenda
of the 2024 programme can be seen below. In structuring the for 2024. Structuring the programme in this way meant that when the
programme, two mechanisms were used through which the Board Board travelled for Board meetings to different regions, in-person
engaged with the workforce. First, targeted events for Board engagements were arranged as part of the Board timetabling, which
members during Board travel or as individual Director location were highly valued by colleagues and Board members alike. A key
allowed, and second, Board members joined pre-existing Group component of the 2024 programme was visits to GSCs in locations
employee events scheduled throughout the year. This approach that were convenient to scheduled Board travel. Further engagement
allowed the Board to meet a diverse group of colleagues and events, town halls and meetings with the workforce were scheduled
participate in a broad range of different engagements. Engagement throughout the year either in person, where individual Director
events were held in three broad formats; in-person events, larger- location allowed, or virtually.
scale events, including town halls; and virtual events.
Visits to Global Services Centres (‘GSCs’) took on a variety of formats,
mixing exchange sessions with floor walks, networking lunches and
town halls. Engagements across all formats were designed to
promote open dialogue and two-way discussions between the
attending Directors and colleagues.
Board’s Workforce Engagement: 2024 Extract
January February March May June September October December
Colleague Representation Black Leaders Strategy & GB&M Floor Tour of Risk & Engagement US key talent &
Engagement & Inclusion Action and Performance & walk Compliance with respective Market
Lunch & Floor exchange Advisory Female Talent floor and Employee Securities
Walks session Council Engagement exchange with Resource Services team
(’BLAAC’) colleagues Groups (’ERG’) exchange
Audience ERG Members Leaders in the BLAAC Senior and GB&M MENAT ERG Global US colleagues
and talent US market members female UK- colleagues colleagues Leads
across a range based talent
of grades and
businesses
Location Shanghai New York Virtual London Singapore Dubai Virtual New York

[PAGE 257]

The outputs and key themes arising from all engagements formed the executives and other Group subsidiary chairs was maintained and
bases of José Meade’s regular reports to the Board and facilitated helped management to respond appropriately and in a timely manner
Board discussions and decision-making. Further to José Meade’s to colleagues and their feedback. In addition, this allowed for José
commitment to attend the Group Executive Committee (’GEC’) and Meade to capture feedback from executives on workforce
the Chairman’s Forum, by so doing this year he continued to help engagement and take their suggestions into consideration going
facilitate discussions on key themes, issues, employee sentiment, forward. In his role, José Meade will continue to engage in these and
and other outcomes from the 2024 workforce engagements. His other relevant forums during 2025.
participation helped to ensure that good dialogue with senior
Workforce engagement non-executive Director activities during 2024
Key themes arose throughout the year such as, inclusion in the respective ERGs to discuss the ERGs’ strategy for the year and
workplace, engagement with HSBC top talent, and Group Strategy. upcoming priorities. Directors will also take part in other ERG events
The themes guided conversations between colleagues and Board where possible, and every effort is made to facilitate local ERG
members and helped to shape the 2024 workforce engagement members meeting their aligned Director during planned Board travel.
programme to ensure that it developed events that were reflective of
Set out below is a selection of workforce engagement events that
these key topics.
were held in 2024 across multiple regions, attended by José Meade
Non-executive Director sponsorship of our Global Employee Resource and other members of the Board where the occasion permitted.
Groups (’ERGs’) continued during 2024. Each Director is aligned to a
Global ERG and during the course of 2024 has met with their
China
– Directors completed a floor walk to meet with teams from
across the Wealth and Private Banking business line, as well
as the Pinnacle team.
– Directors learnt about the financial planning journey of an
HSBC customer, the role colleagues play and the digital
capabilities available.
– Connected with various ERG representatives and colleagues
across functions to informally discuss and share
experiences.
New York
– Attended the ‘HSBC Latin-Americans in NYC Day’ with key
speakers including macro strategists and featuring external
speakers on the Mexican economic outlook.
– Met with a small group of leaders in HSBC to discuss
inclusion and culture in the US market and consider any
more progress needed.
Representation & Inclusion Exchange session
London
New York, February
– An engagement session was held with colleagues where
views were sought on how colleagues interpreted and
understood Group strategy and its practical application.
– An event was held to promote female talent in the UK.
Discussions held included the change of Group senior
leadership, what it meant to individuals and teams, and the
opportunities for female promotion.
Hong Kong
– Participated in several sessions that allowed for Directors to
meet and network with Executive Leadership Programme
colleagues.
Singapore
– Several sessions were held that were designed to promote
ERG engagement. Directors participated in sessions
including a Pride Panel as well as Ability, Sustainability and
Balance Exchanges, to ensure HSBC is inclusive and
supportive. Pride Panel
Singapore, June
Dubai
– Participated in a varied schedule of workforce engagement
events including a discussion with regional Embrace ERG
members and networking with senior talent.
Corporate
governance

[PAGE 258]

Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
Spotlight on our Global Service Centres (‘GSCs‘)
HSBC currently has GSCs in eight countries that operate in over 50 “It is impossible to discuss strategy without
markets and in 20 languages. The GSCs play a pivotal role in helping
considering the role of our GSCs. I have
to support the wider HSBC business and are key in driving the
technological capabilities of the Group. visited several of our GSCs over the past year,
Continuing the focus on the Group’s GSCs in 2023 when José Meade which have further highlighted to me their
visited Mexico City and Hyderabad, during 2024 he visited the GSCs
pivotal role in our operations and in
in Krakow, Guangzhou and Cairo. Details of each visit are set out
below. In July 2024, José Meade attended the GEC meeting where developing our technological capabilities
he discussed insights from his various engagements to date,
more broadly for the success of the Group
including with the GSCs. Discussions at the GEC focused on key
themes arising from the GSC visits, and how these could be further through strategy execution.”
considered and taken forward by the executive team.
José Meade, Dedicated Workforce Engagement NED
GSC: Krakow, Poland (May 2024)
4,570 29 13
FTE permanent countries serviced languages supported
employees
– José Meade visited the Krakow GSC during planned Board travel to the UK. Sessions were held by the local team, including a ‘Tech and Ops Roadshow’ and
Cybersecurity ‘Show & Tell’, where José Meade learnt how the Polish GSC looks to leverage technology in servicing their businesses and functions.
– HSBC Krakow employees have looked to build upon the ‘energise for growth’ strategic pillar. They have partnered with local universities to develop branded
HSBC courses to recruit top talent locally and leverage relationships with fellow businesses to collaborate and problem-solve using technology-forward
solutions.
GSC: Guangzhou, China (June 2024)
8,571 19 7
FTE permanent countries serviced languages supported
employees
– Brendan Nelson and José Meade visited the Guangzhou GSC during planned Board travel to Hong Kong. They participated in several sessions during their
visit, including those on risk capabilities delivered by the GSC and systems developed in collaboration with business and Technology to help enhance data
accuracy. Directors had the opportunity to share and exchange their experiences with local GSC employees on topics such as talent, GSC intelligence,
operations, and the future of HSBC.
– The local GSC in Guangzhou continues to act as a strategic centre specifically for markets across Hong Kong, Singapore and the UK. The visit underpinned
how the GSC works to identify both issues and opportunities alike and deliver digital solutions in response, to the benefit of global business lines.
GSC: Cairo, Egypt (September 2024)
2,243 23 3
FTE permanent countries serviced languages supported
employees
– Rachel Duan and José Meade visited the Cairo GSC during planned Board travel to the Middle East. A deep dive session with the local HR lead allowed for
insights into how the Cairo GSC supports its employees and seeks to attract and retain top talent through development opportunities to help ensure that
employees are engaged with their own growth within the organisation. Interactions with employees across Group operations, through local office floorwalks
and networking lunches, allowed José Meade to understand how these policies work in practice and obtain first-hand feedback from employees on how the
Group is working to promote their voice and ideas.
– Group strategy remained a key theme during the GSC visit to Cairo, and Directors learnt more about the legacy and history of HSBC Egypt, as well as how it
looks to progress in the future.
Looking to the Future
“In 2024 we connected with our colleagues across the business and throughout the world. We
focused discussions on our strategy, inclusion and our GSCs. This approach enabled us to
highlight to the Board and senior management the strengths of our inclusive workforce. By
engaging with our talented workforce directly, understanding and valuing their contributions,
we continue to work together to open up a world of opportunity and achieve our strategic
aims. In 2025, I look forward to working with my fellow Directors and senior leadership to
build on this engagement and design a programme aligned to the refreshed strategic priorities,
and help support the Group‘s ambitions, guided by our values, for the benefit of its many
stakeholders.“
José Meade

[PAGE 259]

Board and committee
effectiveness, performance and
accountability
Actions following the 2023 2024 Board and committee
Performance Review performance review process
As disclosed in last year’s report, the 2023 Board review concluded Performance reviews are an important part of the effective
that the Board was performing well as an engaged, global governance governance and operation of the Board and its committees. In 2024,
body. The review highlighted, amongst other things, strong Board the Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee invited
performance in areas including Stakeholder Accountability, Board Independent Board Evaluation (‘IBE’) to conduct a follow-up review to
Culture, Relationship with Senior Management, and Board Resources the 2023 external performance review. IBE is an independent external
and Support, and identified some minor areas where further service provider with no other connection with the Group or any
enhancement to the Board’s operating practices may be beneficial. individual Directors.
During 2024, the Board successfully implemented the actions agreed A comprehensive brief was provided to IBE to ensure focus on
to address the findings from the 2023 review. This included the priority areas relevant to the Board and committees, IBE were also
establishment of the Group Technology Committee (‘GTC‘) to provide asked to provide an independent view as to whether the actions
oversight of technology-related matters across the Group. The GTC’s taken following the 2023 review had appropriately addressed the
remit was later expanded to include responsibility for Operations, and findings of that review.
as a result was renamed as the Group Technology and Operations
The review took the form of detailed 1-2-1 interviews with members
Committee (‘GTOC’). Further details of the work of the GTC/GTOC
of the Board and select members of management and advisers. IBE
can be found on pages 276 to 278.
also attended and observed the Board and committee meetings in
In addition, the Board approved a revised set of Key Performance December 2024, and were provided with relevant meeting materials
Indicators, ensuring that the Board can effectively oversee the for review in advance.
performance of the business, and receive insights into execution,
Initial observations were shared with the Board in December 2024,
trends, and emerging areas of risk. These are kept under regular
following which a report was compiled by IBE based on the views
review.
supplied by those interviewed as well as IBE’s observations as part of
Other actions have resulted in changes to the Board’s operating the review process. The process and findings set out in this report
practices, including through greater training on effective Board were shared and agreed with the Group Chairman, committee chairs
reporting and enhanced stakeholder engagement plans to ensure the and IBE.
Board has the opportunity for regular engagement with the full
spectrum of key stakeholder groups.
Corporate
governance

[PAGE 260]

Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Board committees
Findings and recommendations
Overall, the review concluded that the Board and its committees senior leadership team and executive governance framework would
continued to operate effectively, with the 2023 report findings having require ongoing strong and open communication between the Board
been appropriately addressed and a few minor areas identified for and the new Group Operating Committee. The new committee
further improvement. Positive feedback and practices were structure, in particular the establishment of the Group Technology and
highlighted in relation to succession planning for the Board and senior Operations Committee and the launch of the Sustainability Working
management, with the pace and robustness of the Group CEO Group, have enhanced Board oversight and support to management
selection process considered to be particularly strong. Key strengths in these areas of critical strategic importance. Further, it was
highlighted included the efficient, inclusive and transparent acknowledged that work continues to ensure the quality and insight
communication with the wider Board, and regulators through the of reporting to the Board, with concise reports that focus on the most
duration of the process. The good practices would be leveraged for material and emerging risks.
future senior succession practices, with the importance of a sufficient
IBE presented its report to the December 2024 Board meeting, and
handover period being noted.
was present for the Board’s discussion, led by the Group Chairman,
The report from IBE also confirmed that the culture of the Board on the findings identified through IBE’s review. Actions arising from
continues to be regarded as a key strength. The major organisational the Board and committee review will be monitored by the Board over
and leadership changes that took place during 2024 further the coming months. Further details on the findings specific to each
demonstrated the flexibility of the Board governance and operating committee can be found within the respective committee reports
rhythm, and its commitment in response to the needs of the Group later in this section.
and its stakeholders. It was acknowledged that the refresh of the

[PAGE 261]

Nomination & Corporate
Governance Committee
“We have full confidence in Georges and the new senior leadership team. They have the
skills, experience and track record necessary to deliver the next exciting phase of the
Group’s development and growth.“
Sir Mark E Tucker
Chair
Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee
Membership Key responsibilities
The Committee’s key responsibilities include:
Meeting attendance
Member since in 20241 – overseeing succession planning and leading the process for
Sir Mark Tucker (Chair) Oct 2017 9/9 identifying and nominating candidates for appointment to the
Geraldine Buckingham May 2022 9/9 Board and its committees;
Rachel Duan Sep 2021 9/9 – overseeing succession planning and development of senior
Dame Carolyn Fairbairn Sep 2021 8/9 leadership;
James Forese May 2020 9/9 – overseeing and monitoring the corporate governance framework
Ann Godbehere Sep 2023 9/9 of the Company and its subsidiaries; and
Steven Guggenheimer May 2020 9/9 – ensuring that the corporate governance framework is consistent
José Antonio Meade Apr 2019 9/9 with relevant standards and best practices.
Kuribreña
Kalpana Morparia Mar 2023 9/9
Eileen Murray2 Jul 2020 8/9
Brendan Nelson Sep 2023 9/9
David Nish3 Apr 2018 3/3
Swee Lian Teo Oct 2023 9/9
1 In addition to the scheduled Committee meetings, various sub-groups of
the Committee were established during the year to oversee the
succession process for the Group CEO and other senior leadership
changes.
2 Due to personal reasons, Eileen Murray was unable to attend the
Committee meeting in September 2024.
3 David Nish retired from the Board on 3 May 2024.
I am pleased to present the Nomination & Corporate Governance Group OpCo. We have full confidence in Georges and the new senior
Committee report, which provides an overview of the Committee’s leadership team. They have the skills, experience and track record
activities during 2024. necessary to deliver the next exciting phase of the Group’s
development and growth.
Succession planning was central to the Committee’s agenda during
the year. The main area of focus was the Group CEO succession We were delighted to welcome Pam Kaur to the Board as an
planning, which was triggered by Sir Noel Quinn’s decision to retire as Executive Director, following her appointment as Group CFO. Pam is
Group CEO. The Committee undertook a formal search process, well known to the Board, having served as Group Chief Risk Officer
which built upon the Committee’s long-term work to develop since 2020, and in the expanded role of Group Chief Risk and
potential internal and external succession options for the Group CEO Compliance Officer since 2021, and we look forward to working
role. Additional details on this process, which unanimously concluded closely with her in this new capacity. Georges and Pam formed an
that Georges Elhedery was an outstanding candidate and the right effective partnership in their prior roles, and I am confident that the
person for the role, are set out later in this report. The rigorous and Group and its stakeholders will continue to benefit from this
detailed work undertaken by the Committee over the prior years on relationship in the years ahead. I would also like to thank Jonathan
Group CEO succession enabled us to conduct a thorough, robust and Bingham, for his excellent work and valuable contributions during his
market-leading process, at pace. The process received positive tenure as Interim Group CFO.
feedback from key stakeholders, including from Committee
We have continued to review our governance structure in light of
members, as part of the 2024 Board and Committee performance
evolving business needs to ensure that it remains appropriate in
review.
supporting the delivery of Group strategy and aligned with
The Committee also oversaw and supported the changes made to the stakeholder expectations. During 2024, this led to several changes to
Group’s organisational structure and leadership team. This included our Board and Committee operations, including the establishment of
endorsing the establishment of the new Group Operating Committee the Group Technology Committee and of the Sustainability Working
(‘Group OpCo’), which serves as the leading decision-making Group. We subsequently agreed to expand the remit of the Group
executive committee of the Group. The Committee was fully Technology Committee to include Operations. Going forward, the
supportive of Georges' recommendations for appointments to the
Corporate
governance

[PAGE 262]

Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Board committees
Group Technology and Operations Committee will oversee the work needs of the Board and the Group, to determine whether his term
of the new Group CIO and Group COO. should be extended. Pepe has played an important and valuable role,
significantly enhancing the Board’s engagements with all colleagues
Both forums have strengthened our governance oversight in the key
and its understanding of their views. In order to allow him to build on
areas of technology and sustainability, which are two critical elements
this work, as the business embarks on a period of change under new
of our strategy and risk management activity. Additional details on
leadership, the Committee agreed that his appointment should be
these forums can be found on pages 23, and 276.
extended by a year, leading up to the 2026 AGM, subject to his re-
election by shareholders. It is the Board’s strong belief that this
Separately, following the changes to the organisational structure
extension of Pepe’s appointment, given his performance and
announced in October 2024, the Committee considered what further
contributions to the Board in 2024, is in the best interests of the
enhancements to the Group’s governance arrangements were
Group and all of its stakeholders.
necessary. This resulted in two principal changes. Firstly, in order to
strengthen the connectivity between the Group and our most
The Committee will continue to monitor the market throughout 2025
significant subsidiary boards, the Committee recommended that Ann
for potential candidates for appointment to the Board in both the short
Godbehere and Brendan Nelson be appointed as directors of HSBC
and medium-term. This will ensure that the Board has a pipeline of
Bank plc and HSBC UK Bank plc, respectively. Secondly, the
credible successors with the relevant skills, knowledge, and
Committee approved changes to the Group’s executive governance
experience.
framework and operating rhythm aimed at ensuring enhanced, clearer
lines of accountability and decision-making. Committee composition
important for ensuring that our governance practices meet the Board-level Group Technology Committee (’GTC’), chaired by Eileen
highest standards and work effectively. Following the externally Murray, was established on 1 March 2024. In December 2024,
facilitated review in 2023, conducted by IBE, the Committee invited reflecting the changes to the Group COO role and its inclusion in the
them again to conduct a follow-up review in 2024. The objective was newly formed Group OpCo, the Committee approved changes to the
to provide assurance that the recommendations made had been remit of the GTC, adding responsibility for Operations, in addition to
addressed and that the Board and its Committees were working Technology. As a result, the GTC was renamed as the Group
effectively. The findings and agreed actions from the 2024 review can Technology and Operations Committee. Additional information on the
be found from page 257. work undertaken by the Group Technology and Operations
Committee since its formation, along with its priorities for the year
Finally, there were changes to the UK and Hong Kong Corporate
ahead, can be found from page 276.
Governance Codes, which take effect from this year. Whilst our
existing governance practices are aligned with the requirements of As part of the decision to establish the Sustainability Working Group
these revised Codes, the Committee continues to assess possible (’SWG’), it was agreed that Geraldine Buckingham would be
enhancements, monitoring market practices to ensure that we not appointed as its Chair. Additional details on the work undertaken by
only remain compliant, but also meet our objective of having world the SWG can be found on page 23.
class governance.
The Committee also reviewed the composition of the Board
Committees, to ensure that it remains appropriate, with consideration
given to the Board diversity and inclusion policy, and to ensure
effective use of the skills and expertise of the Directors. Several
Sir Mark E Tucker changes to the Committees’ composition were agreed during the
Group Chairman year. The Committee will continue to review the Committees’
composition to ensure that it remains appropriate.
Committee governance Board diversity
The Group Chief People & Governance Officer, in her capacity as the The Board recognises the importance of gender, social and ethnic
Group Company Secretary, attended all Committee meetings during diversity, and the benefits that diverse identities and backgrounds
the year. She supported the Group Chairman in ensuring that the bring to Board effectiveness. Representation is a consideration in
Committee fulfilled its governance responsibilities. The Group CEO succession plans and appointments at both Board and senior
selectively attended Committee meetings, joining when required. management level, as well as more broadly across the Group. The
Committee also considers representation on Board Committees when
Russell Reynolds Associates (’RRA’) supported the Committee and reviewing their composition.
the management team with Board succession planning and
appointments. RRA also provided support to management on senior At the end of 2024, the Board had 54% female representation, with
management succession, and on development and recruitment. seven female Board members out of a total of 13, which is above the
Representatives from RRA regularly attend meetings during the year year-end 2025 target set by the FTSE Women Leaders Review.
and have no other connection with the Group or members of the Following Pam Kaur’s appointment as an Executive Director on
Board. 1 January 2025, female representation increased to 57%. The Board
now also has two female leaders holding one of the four senior
Board composition and succession positions. These four senior roles, as defined by the FTSE Women
Leaders Review, are Chair, Chief Executive Officer, Senior
The Committee continued to keep the composition of the Board and Independent Director and Chief Financial Officer.
of its Committees under review, with assessments focused on the
skills, knowledge, and experience necessary to oversee, challenge Beyond gender, the Committee remains focused on enhancing the
and support management, in the achievement of the Group’s ethnic heritage diversity of the Board, reflecting the international
strategic and business objectives. nature of our business and HSBC’s Asia heritage.
The Committee has a long-standing policy under which non-executive The Board’s diversity and inclusion policy highlights our commitment
Directors are expected to serve two three-year terms. Any to diversity, while providing specifics on the approach taken to
appointments that extend beyond this are reviewed on an annual achieving our relevant ambitions. Additional details on activities aimed
basis, with consideration given to the future needs of the Board, and at improving representation across senior management and the wider
the performance and contributions of the individual. workforce, together with supporting statistics, can be found on page
64. The Board’s diversity and inclusion policy is available at
José (’Pepe’) Meade, Workforce Engagement non-executive Director, www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/our-people/board-of-directors/board-
will complete his second three-year term at the 2025 AGM. As a responsibilities
result, a review was conducted, which took into account the broader

[PAGE 263]

Group CEO succession – Agreement on the regulatory role profile and key selection criteria,
which included key technical, experiential and leadership
Following the announcement on 30 April 2024 that Sir Noel Quinn competencies that were determined to be essential for the
would retire as Group CEO, the Committee oversaw a rigorous formal successful candidate.
search, selection and appointment process to identify the next leader
– The assessment of all internal and external candidates against this
of the Group. A high-level overview of the process is shown in the
role profile and selection criteria, with the support of a leading
graphic below.
external search firm. Candidates also provided a written
The Committee’s focus on Group CEO succession planning since Sir articulation of their strategic vision for the Group, which was
Noel Quinn’s appointment in 2020, supported its objective to followed by the shortlisting of the final candidates.
complete the search at pace and provide clarity on future leadership – Thorough referencing and background checks, which were
to the organisation and our stakeholders. conducted on the final candidates, to provide the Committee with
a deeper understanding of their character and motivations.
The process to select Sir Noel Quinn’s successor was led by the
Group Chairman and the Committee, who were supported by a – The final candidates were interviewed with all non-executive
leading external search partner. Directors. They also presented their strategic vision for the Group
to the Committee and participated in Q&A.
Key steps in the process included:
– Interview feedback, which included non-executive Directors
– The establishment of a committee sub-group, comprising the scoring each candidate against the successful selection profile, as
Group Chairman, Senior Independent non-executive and well as qualitative feedback based on candidate interviews,
Committee Chairs, to oversee the process. Regular updates were presentation and Q&A, which was collated and discussed by the
provided to the broader Committee through weekly update notes Committee.
from the Group Chairman, who also engaged with the Group’s
principal regulators throughout the process.
Presentations to
Establishment of a Agreement of the Candidate interviews
Internal and external Committee on
sub-group of the regulatory role profile with Group Chairman
candidate assessment strategic vision and
Committee and success criteria and NEDs
Q&A
Announcement of Regulatory
Board approval Feedback collated and
appointment of engagement, Decision on preferred
following receipt of discussed by the
Georges Elhedery as application and candidate
regulatory approval Committee
Group CEO interview
Based on the information gathered on the candidates over the past Global Head of Risk Analytics, was appointed as Interim Group Chief
four years, as well as the succession process, the Committee Risk and Compliance Officer with effect from 1 January 2025. An
selected Georges Elhedery as the preferred candidate. update on permanent succession for this position will be provided in
due course.
Georges then participated in the required regulatory interviews with
the PRA and FCA, after which the Committee received confirmation In conjunction with the announcement on the new, simpler
of regulatory approval, and announced Georges’ appointment on organisational structure, designed to unleash the full potential of
Wednesday 17 July 2024. HSBC, the Committee also approved several changes to the senior
leadership team, based on the recommendations of the new Group
The Committee also agreed on a comprehensive induction and
CEO. These included the approval of the new Group OpCo terms of
development plan to best support Georges’ transition to Group CEO.
reference, together with its membership. Members of the Committee
The Committee continues to oversee this plan and receives regular
were closely involved in the assessment and selection process for
updates on progress.
roles on the new Group OpCo, including the roles of CEO of
Corporate and Institutional Banking and Western Markets, and the
Senior executive succession and
split of the previous Group COO’s responsibilities into two new Group
development OpCo roles – those of Group CIO and Group COO.
Jonathan Bingham, Global Financial Controller, was appointed as Committee performance review
Interim Group CFO with effect from 2 September 2024. This interim
The 2024 annual review of the effectiveness of the Board and Board
appointment allowed Georges to focus on his new responsibilities as
Committees, including the Nomination & Corporate Governance
Group CEO, whilst the process to identify a permanent successor
Committee, was conducted externally by IBE.
was conducted. The process to select the permanent Group CFO was
led by the Group CEO, with the support of the Group Chief People & It determined that the Committee continued to perform effectively.
Governance Officer and a leading external search firm. Consistent There were no specific actions identified for the Committee. The
with the approach taken for the selection of Georges Elhedery as review acknowledged the Committee’s role in the Group CEO
Group CEO, internal and external candidates were considered and succession process, which was very well managed, and identified
assessed against the agreed role profile and selection criteria. several good practices that would be applied to future succession
Following the completion of interviews with members of the Board, processes for key roles across the Group. Additional details on the
Pam Kaur was selected to join the Board as an Executive Director and annual review of the Board and Committees’ effectiveness can be
Group CFO. found from page 257.
Following Pam’s selection for the role of Group CFO, Richard
Blackburn, Global Head of Traded and Treasury Risk Management &
Corporate
governance

[PAGE 264]

Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Board committees
Subsidiary governance In order to further strengthen connectivity between the Board and the
most significant subsidiary boards, the Committee took relevant steps
In line with the subsidiary accountability framework, the Committee with two of the principal UK regulated entities. It recommended that
continued to oversee the corporate governance and succession Ann Godbehere be appointed to the HSBC Bank plc board and
arrangements across the principal subsidiary portfolio. Additional Brendan Nelson be appointed to the HSBC UK Bank plc board. Given
details on the subsidiary accountability framework are set out on that the Board has benefitted from James Forese’s leadership of the
page 247. HSBC North America Holdings Inc. Board, the Committee is confident
that these appointments will enhance governance arrangements and
Given the improvement in quality of the succession planning updates
connectivity.
over the previous years, the Committee agreed that, for 2024, the
material subsidiary plans no longer required direct oversight. Principal The committee continues to provide support and look for
Subsidiaries continued to oversee plans for their respective opportunities to enhance subsidiary connectivity through non-
subsidiaries, with the Committee retaining the ability to review executive Director events and other engagement forums. The
material subsidiary succession plans, where necessary. Group’s flagship events held in 2024 included the Bank Director
Programme and the Bank Chair Programme. The Group Chairman also
The Committee continued to support and seek opportunities to
hosted an annual Global NED Update, which was attended by over
enhance subsidiary connectivity. That included leveraging the
200 subsidiary non-executive Directors.
Chairman’s Forum and Remuneration Committee Chairs’ Forum,
which regularly brought together the chairs of the principal
subsidiaries to discuss issues of common interest.
Jan Feb Apr May Jun Jul Sep Sep Dec
Board composition and succession
Board composition, including succession planning and skills matrices u u u u u u u u u
Executive talent and development
Senior executive succession and appointments u u u u u u u u u
Governance
Board and corporate governance developments u u u u u u u u u
Board and committee performance review u u u u u u u u u
Subsidiary governance u u u u u u u u u
Subsidiary appointments u u u u u u u u u
u Matter considered u Matter not considered

[PAGE 265]

Group Audit Committee
“Given changes in the external operating environment and as a result of the
reorganisation of the Group, the Group Audit Committee will play an important role in
monitoring the impact on the control environment during this period of change.“
Brendan Nelson
Chair
Group Audit Committee
Membership Key responsibilities
Meeting attendance The Committee’s key responsibilities include:
Member since in 20241
– monitoring and assessing the integrity of the financial
Brendan Nelson (Chair) Sept 2023 10/10
statements, formal announcements and regulatory information
Geraldine Buckingham2 Oct 2024 2/2 in relation to the Group’s financial performance, as well as
Rachel Duan3 Apr 2022 9/10 significant accounting judgements;
James Forese3 May 2020 9/10
– reviewing the effectiveness of internal controls;
Ann Godbehere4 Feb 2024 7/7
– reviewing management’s arrangements for compliance with
Eileen Murray5, 6 June 2022 6/8
prudential regulatory financial reporting;
David Nish7 May 2016 4/4
– reviewing the annual financial resource plan, including annual
budget, capital expenditure and business plans;
Notes:
– reviewing and monitoring the relationship with the external
1 These included one ad hoc meeting held on 31 January 2024 and a joint
auditor and overseeing its appointment, remuneration and
meeting with the Group Risk Committee (’GRC’), which took place on 18
June 2024. independence;
2 Geraldine Buckingham was appointed as a member of the GAC on – overseeing the Group’s policies, procedures and arrangements
1 October 2024.
for capturing and responding to whistleblower concerns and
3 Rachel Duan and James Forese were unable to join one ad hoc GAC
ensuring they are operating effectively; and
meeting, due to prior commitments.
4 Ann Godbehere joined the GAC on 21 February 2024. – overseeing the work of Global Internal Audit and monitoring and
5 Eileen Murray stepped down from the GAC on 1 October 2024.
assessing the effectiveness, performance, resourcing,
6 Eileen Murray was unable to attend the meeting held on 25 September
independence and standing of the function.
2024 due to personal reasons.
7 David Nish stepped down from the GAC on 3 May 2024 upon his
retirement from the Board.
I am pleased to introduce the Group Audit Committee (‘GAC’) report, issues and the related management judgements. These included
my first as GAC Chair. In this report, I have provided an overview of spending significant time on the appropriateness and clarity of the
the key matters and issues considered by the GAC in 2024. I Group’s market guidance, including in relation to returns, costs and
assumed the role of GAC Chair following the publication of the FY23 expected credit losses (‘ECL’). Given the uncertain global
would like to acknowledge and thank David for his leadership of the disclosures on ECLs, in particular those relating to the Group’s
GAC during his time as Chair. exposure to the mainland China and Hong Kong corporate real estate
sectors.
Internal controls have been a key focus during 2024, and the GAC
assumed responsibility for the oversight of all internal controls - which I have spent time with several of the subsidiary audit committee
was previously limited to those related to financial reporting. We have chairs, building on the important connectivity between the Group and
overseen management’s proposed enhancement of controls, subsidiaries established over the past few years. Regular engagement
including the creation of a new Group Chief Controls Oversight Office with our subsidiary audit chairs will continue to be an important part
function. This will enhance effective operation and monitoring of the of the GAC’s governance practices through 2025 and beyond.
Group’s control environment. This will include the work to support
The GAC also oversaw the External Quality Review of the Global
preparations for the Board's declaration on the effectiveness of
Internal Audit function during the year, which was conducted by
material controls, which will be required from 2026 under the 2024
Deloitte in accordance with the Internal Audit Code. I am pleased to
UK Corporate Governance Code.
report that the function is highly valued across the HSBC Group, and
Given changes in the external operating environment and as a result received a ’Generally Confirms’ rating, which is the highest attainable
of the reorganisation of the Group, the GAC will have an important under the internal audit International Professional Practices
role in monitoring the impact on the control environment during this framework.
period of change. A key element of this continues to be our progress
Finally, I was pleased that the review of the GAC’s performance
in enhancing the control environment regarding the Group’s
concluded that the GAC continued to operate effectively. Further
regulatory reporting obligations. Remediation of errors in regulatory
details on the review, which also considered the performance of the
reporting and achieving a sustainable controls environment over these
Board and the other Board committees, can be found as part of the
returns, remains a priority for the Committee, management and our
'How we are governed' section on page 257.
regulators globally. Further details on progress under this programme
can be found later in this report.
Brendan Nelson
The GAC received regular updates from the Group Chief Financial
Chair of the Group Audit Committee
Officer and Global Financial Controller on key financial reporting
Corporate
governance

[PAGE 266]

Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Board committees
Committee governance
The Committee operates under delegated authority from the Board, The Committee Chair continued to engage with various key
and advises the Board on matters concerning the Group’s financial stakeholders, including the UK PRA, to understand their views, key
reporting requirements. The Committee Chair reports on the key themes and areas of focus within the broader financial services sector
matters and discussions at the subsequent Board meeting, and the on matters relevant to the work of the Committee. This included
Board also receives copies of the Committee agendas and minutes. trilateral meetings involving the Group’s external auditor, PwC, and
This supports the Board‘s oversight of the work carried out by the UK PRA.
management, Global Internal Audit and PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Members of senior management routinely attended meetings of the
(‘PwC‘), as the Group’s statutory auditor.
GAC. The external auditor attended all meetings.
The Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee has confirmed
The Chair holds regular meetings with management, Global Internal
that each member of the Committee is independent according to the
Audit and PwC, as the external auditor, to discuss relevant items as
criteria of the US Securities and Exchange Commission, and the
they arose during the year outside the formal Committee process.
Committee and individual members continue to possess competence
The Committee also regularly meets with the internal and external
relevant to the banking and broader financial services sector in which
auditors, without management present. Private discussions are also
the Group operates. The Board has determined that Brendan Nelson
held with relevant members of senior management, including the
and Ann Godbehere are the audit committee ‘financial experts’ for the
Group Chief Financial Officer and Group Chief Risk and Compliance
purposes of section 407 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and have recent
Officer.
and relevant financial experience for the purposes of the UK and Hong
Kong Corporate Governance Codes.
Matters considered during 2024
Jan Feb Apr Jun Jul Sep Oct Dec
Reporting
Financial reporting matters including:
– review of financial statements, ensuring that disclosures are fair, balanced and understandable
– significant accounting judgements u u u u u u u u
– going concern assumptions and viability statement
– supplementary regulatory information
Review of the Group's annual financial resource plan u u u u u u u u
ESG and climate reporting u u u u u u u u
Regulatory reporting-related matters including:
– oversight of the Group's engagement with PRA-requested skilled person reviews
– reports from the principal subsidiaries on progress and learnings in relation to their local
u u u u u u u u
remediation efforts
– adequacy of resources across Finance and other SME teams to deliver the Group-wide
remediation programme
Certificates from principal subsidiary audit committees u u u u u u u u
Control environment
Control enhancement programmes u u u u u u u u
Group transformation u u u u u u u u
Review of deficiencies and effectiveness of internal financial controls u u u u u u u u
Internal audit
Reports from Global Internal Audit u u u u u u u u
Audit plan updates, independence and effectiveness u u u u u u u u
External audit
Reports from external audit, including external audit plan u u u u u u u u
Appointment, remuneration, non-audit services and effectiveness u u u u u u u u
Compliance
Accounting standards and critical accounting policies u u u u u u u u
Corporate governance codes and listing rules u u u u u u u u
Whistleblowing
Whistleblowing arrangements and effectiveness u u u u u u u u
u Matter considered u Matter not considered

[PAGE 267]

How the Committee discharged its responsibilities
Financial, sustainability and climate reporting Fair, balanced and understandable
The GAC is responsible for reviewing the Group’s financial reporting Following review and challenge of the disclosures, the Committee
Report, quarterly earnings releases, analyst presentations and Pillar 3 taken as a whole, were fair, balanced and understandable. These
disclosures. provided the shareholders with the necessary information to assess
the Group’s position and performance, business model, strategy and
Furthermore, as an area of expanded assurance, the GAC, supported
risks facing the business.
by the executive-level ESG Committee, provided close oversight of
amid rising stakeholder expectations. The work will continue and results announcements to provide feedback and challenge to
throughout 2025 in partnership with the Sustainability Working Group. management. It was supported by the work of the Group Disclosure
and Controls Committee, which also reviewed and assessed the
As part of its review, the GAC:
– challenged and evaluated management’s application of critical
This work enabled the GAC to discharge its responsibilities and
accounting policies and material areas in which significant
support the Board in making the statement required under the UK and
accounting judgements were applied;
Hong Kong Corporate Governance Codes.
– reviewed and challenged management’s judgements and
Internal controls
disclosures in relation to impairment reviews of HSBC’s
investment in Bank of Communications Co., Limited, performed During the year, the Board approved changes to the scope of the
using a value-in-use methodology; GAC’s responsibilities in relation to internal controls. These changes
– gave particular regard to the analysis and measurement of IFRS 9 saw the GAC assume responsibility for oversight of the effectiveness
ECL, including the key judgements and management adjustments of all internal controls. This reflected the GAC’s experience in
made in relation to the forward economic guidance, underlying overseeing internal controls over financial reporting, and the
economic scenarios and reasonableness of the weightings, as well responsibility that will apply from the 2026 financial year to make a
as modelling and adjustments; declaration on the effectiveness of material controls under the 2024
UK Corporate Governance Code.
– focused on preparation for disclosures to ensure these were
consistent, appropriate and could be validated under the relevant Regular updates and confirmations are provided to the GAC on the
financial and governance reporting requirements; action management takes to remediate any failings or weaknesses
identified through the operation of the Group’s framework of internal
– tracked and monitored delivery against the external audit plan; and
financial controls. This is supplemented by reviews of these controls
– provided advice to the Board on the form and basis underlying the by the second line of defence and internal audit, and the external
long-term viability statement. auditors, who provided additional comfort to the Committee on the
effectiveness of these controls. These reviews confirmed that there
We also received independent third-party limited standalone
were no material weaknesses as at the year-end.
assurance on the Group’s climate reporting. Further details can be
found in ’Assurance relating to ESG data’ on page 44. These updates included the Group’s work on compliance with section
404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Based on this work, the GAC
In conjunction with the GRC, the GAC considered the current position
recommended that the Board support its assessment of the internal
of the Group, along with the emerging and principal risks, and carried
controls over financial reporting.
out a robust assessment of the Group’s prospects. This assessment
informed the GAC’s recommendation to the Board on the Group’s The GAC continued to focus on controls over the Group's Insurance
long-term viability. The GAC also undertook a detailed review before business following the implementation of the IFRS 17 ‘Insurance
recommending to the Board that the Group continues to adopt the Contracts‘ accounting standards. The GAC welcomed management's
going concern basis in preparing the annual and interim financial progress in improving the control environment during 2024. However,
statements. Further details can be found on page 40. there remains further work to ensure that the Insurance business
embeds the control standards expected on a consistent basis across
Following the October 2024 announcement in relation to the Group's
all markets.
organisation structure, the GAC oversaw management proposals
regarding the external disclosure requirements following the For further details of how the Board reviewed the effectiveness of key
reorganisation of the Group around four core business. The GAC aspects of internal control, see page 323.
reviewed the financial resource plan, prior to approval by the Board,
Regulatory reporting
which helped to support the revised guidance, including in relation to
the expected benefits from the reorganisation and simplification of Regulatory reporting has been a key priority for the Committee over
the Group, which were communicated to the market as part of the recent years and will continue to be a priority for 2025. The
FY24 results. In relation to the expected benefits specifically, the GAC Committee is focused on monitoring the programme of work to
considered the independent validation report provided by a third party, address the quality and reliability of regulatory reporting to meet
and which provided additional comfort on the appropriateness of regulatory expectations.
management's proposed guidance.
Management provided updates on the status of ongoing HSBC-
The GAC will complete a thorough review of the pro-forma historical specific external reviews, and discussed the issues and themes
financial performance for 2023 and 2024, based on the new identified from the increased assurance work and focus on regulatory
organisational structure, prior to their communication to the market reporting. The GAC also discussed root cause themes, remediation of
next month. known issues and new issues identified through the increased
assurance work. The Committee challenged management on
Financial planning
remediation plans, to assess whether there was a sustainable
The GAC reviewed and debated the robustness of the financial plan reduction in issues and that dependencies with other key
for the financial years 2025 to 2029. The GAC considered the risks programmes were well understood.
and challenges, and ensured that the process to develop the financial
Further details can be found in the ‘Principal activities and significant issues
resource plan was robust and that the assumptions driving the
considered during 2024’ table on page 268.
financial performance of the Group were appropriate and subject to
appropriate challenge.
Corporate
governance

[PAGE 268]

Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Board committees
Adequacy of resources Committee and the External Audit: Minimum Standard (’the
Standard’), where relevant, were met during 2024.
The Committee is responsible, under the Hong Kong Listing Rules, to
annually assess the adequacy of resources of the accounting, internal The GAC reviewed the PwC external audit approach, including the
audit, financial reporting and ESG performance and reporting materiality, risk assessment and scope of the audit. PwC highlighted
functions. It also monitored the legal and regulatory environment the changes being made to its approach to enhance the quality and
relevant to its responsibilities. effectiveness of the audit. PwC’s plan supports its, and the GAC’s,
focus on audit quality through standardisation, centralisation and the
The Committee determined that each of the functions provided
use of technology.
thorough information with regards to people capacity and capability
and endorsed the annual update to the Board. Following commitments made as part of the audit tender process
conducted in 2022, specifically in relation to plans for greater
In recognition that the enhancement of the Group’s regulatory reporting
utilisation of digital solutions on the HSBC audit, the Committee
processes and controls was a priority for both the Committee and the
received a demonstration of how PwC were leveraging digital audit
Group’s regulators, the GAC also considered the adequacy of regulatory
tooling as part of the audit of the Group’s accounts. PwC continue to
reporting resources as part of the year-end activities.
look for opportunities to further leverage technology to enhance the
Connectivity with principal subsidiary audit efficiency, robustness and quality of the Group statutory audit.
committees Effectiveness of external audit process
The Committee recognises the importance of strong connectivity and The GAC assessed the effectiveness of PwC as the Group’s external
alignment with principal subsidiary audit committees. The auditor, using a questionnaire that focused on the overall audit
mechanisms to support this are well established and continued to process, its effectiveness and the quality of output.
operate effectively during the year.
In addition, the GAC Chair, certain principal subsidiary audit chairs and
This included information sharing and targeted collaboration between members of the Group Executive Committee met with the Senior
audit committee chairs and management to ensure there was Audit Partner to discuss findings from the questionnaire and provide
appropriate focus on the local implementation of programmes. During in-depth feedback on the interaction with the PwC audit team.
2024 this included a particular focus on regulatory reporting, with the
Key strengths identified through the review included strong
subsidiary audit committee chairs, chief executive officers and chief
independent challenge, the knowledge of the audit team and the
financial officers of the Europe, Asia-Pacific, Middle East and
good understanding of the Group‘s businesses and associated risks
Americas regions attending Committee meetings to update on
that were demonstrated through the course of the audit. The review
progress, share local challenges, and areas of focus with the
also identified some areas for improvement, including with regards to
Committee.
communication and coordination with management, and planning.
In addition to the Chair‘s regular meetings with the audit chairs of the
The GAC receives regular updates from PwC and management on
Group’s UK, European, US, Middle Eastern and Asian principal
performance across the audit quality indicators, which provides wider
subsidiaries, and their attendance at GAC meetings for relevant items,
visibility of ongoing and emerging issues.
they provided quarterly reports on their local audit committee activity.
This included updates on internal control, and financial and regulatory There were no breaches of the policy on hiring employees or former
reporting matters that are significant from a local or enterprise-wide employees of the external auditor during the year. The lead audit
perspective. In addition, the Committee received escalations from partner attends all Committee meetings and the GAC Chair maintains
subsidiary boards for information and action, as appropriate. The regular contact with the senior audit partner and his team throughout
connectivity between the Group and subsidiary audit committees is the year.
supplemented by attendance at committee meetings by the Group
and subsidiary audit committee chairs. During the year, the Committee considered the impact of the fine and
six-month suspension on PwC’s China Firm upon PwC UK‘s ability to
On a half-year basis, principal subsidiary audit committees provided act as auditor for the Group. The GAC received assurance from PwC’s
certifications to the Committee that regarded the preparation of their Global Leadership Team that the issues leading to the sanctions did
financial statements, adherence to Group policies and escalation of not impact the Group, and that PwC were taking appropriate steps to
any issues that required the attention of the Committee. These prevent reoccurrence. The GAC will continue to monitor until the
certifications also included information regarding the governance, completion of the suspension, which is due to expire during March
review and assurance activities undertaken by principal subsidiary 2025.
audit committees in relation to prudential regulatory reporting.
Independence and objectivity
External auditor
The Committee assessed any potential threats to independence that
The GAC has the primary responsibility for overseeing the relationship were self-identified or reported by PwC. Based on the reporting
with the Group’s external auditor, PwC. received, PwC are deemed to be independent and PwC, in
accordance with professional ethical standards and applicable rules
PwC completed its tenth audit, providing robust challenge to
and regulations, provided the GAC with written confirmation of its
management and sound independent advice to the Committee on
independence for the duration of 2024.
specific financial reporting judgements, sustainability reporting and
the overall control environment. The senior audit partner is Matthew The Committee confirms it has complied with the provisions of The
Falconer, who assumed the role as part of the regular rotation of audit Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation
partners in support of the independence of PwC for the 2024 financial (Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit
year. The Committee reviewed the external auditor’s approach and Committee Responsibilities) Order 2014 for the financial statements.
strategy for the annual audit and received regular updates on the
audit, including observations on the control environment. Following the Committee‘s recommendation to reappoint PwC as the
auditor, shareholders passed the associated resolution at the 2024
Key audit matters discussed with PwC are set out in its report on AGM. At the same time, shareholders authorised the Committee to
page 331. The Committee reviewed, and concluded that, all determine PwC‘s audit fee for the financial year ended 31 December
requirements of the Financial Reporting Council's (‘FRC’) Audit 2024, which was approved by the Committee at its July 2024
meeting.

[PAGE 269]

Non-audit services greatest areas of risk. The independence of Global Internal Audit from
day-to-day line management responsibility is fundamental to its ability
The Committee is responsible for setting, reviewing and monitoring
to deliver objective audit coverage of all parts of the Group. Global
the appropriateness of the provision of non-audit services by the
Internal Audit is free from interference by any element in the
external auditor. It also applies the Group’s policy on the award of
organisation, including on matters of audit selection, scope,
non-audit services to the external auditor. The non-audit services are
procedures, frequency, timing, or internal audit report content. The
carried out in accordance with the external auditor independence
Group Head of Internal Audit reports to, and meets frequently with,
policy to ensure that services do not create a conflict of interest. All
the Chair of the GAC.
non-audit services are either approved by the GAC Chair, or by Group
Finance when acting within delegated limits and criteria set by the In addition, in 2024, there was continued heightened interaction
GAC. between Global Internal Audit Senior Management and the members
of the GAC, aimed at increasing knowledge and awareness of the
The non-audit services carried out by PwC included 16 engagements
audit universe and existing and emerging risks identified by Global
approved during the year where the fees were over $100,000 but less
Internal Audit. Global Internal Audit adheres to The Institute of Internal
than $1m. Group Finance, to whom the GAC has delegated authority
Auditors' mandatory guidance.
for non-audit services below $1m, considered that it was in the best
interests of the Group to use PwC for these services because they Consistent with previous years, the 2025 audit planning process
were: includes assessing the inherent risks and strength of the control
environment across the audit entities representing the Group. Results
– audit-related assurance services, with the work closely related to
of this assessment are combined with a top-down analysis of risk
work performed in the audit and in some instances required by
themes by risk category to ensure that themes identified are
local regulators to be performed by the external auditor; or
addressed in the annual plan. Audit coverage is achieved using a
– other assurance services that involve obtaining appropriate audit combination of business and functional audits of processes and
evidence to express a conclusion designed to enhance the degree controls, risk management frameworks and major change initiatives,
of confidence of the intended users other than the responsible as well as regulatory audits, investigations and special reviews. In
party about the subject matter information, including attestation addition to the ongoing importance of regulatory-focused work, key
reports on internal controls of a service organisation primarily risk theme categories for 2025 audit coverage remain as: strategy,
prepared for and used by third-party end users. governance and culture; financial crime, conduct and compliance;
financial resilience; and operational resilience. A quarterly continuous
There were no engagements during the year where the fees monitoring assessment of key risk themes will form the basis of
exceeded $1m, above which GAC approval would be required. thematic reporting and plan updates and will ultimately drive the 2026
planning process.
2024 2023
Auditors‘ remuneration $m $m Global Internal Audit has made updates to the audit universe and risk
assessment to reflect the Group reorganisation. As a result, audits
Total fees payable 146.6 155.9
have been added to the 2025 Annual Audit Plan, and audits have been
of which fees for non-audit services 43.8 46.1
Ratio of non-audit fees to audit fees1 43.0% 42.0% refocused, to reflect the risks arising from the Group reorganisation.
In addition to the Group reorganisation, Global Internal Audit’s new or
1 The calculation is on a simple ratio and is not based on FRC guidance on non-
audit fees ratio thresholds. heightened areas of coverage for 2025 are: Group strategy; significant
change initiatives including regulatory change; material regulatory
Whistleblowing and speak-up culture obligations; compliance; anti-money laundering and sanctions;
conduct, internal and external fraud; credit risk management; financial
An important part of HSBC’s values is speaking up when something
forecasting; regulatory reporting; enterprise wide risk management,
does not feel right. HSBC remains committed to ensuring colleagues
operational resilience; Financial Reporting Council Corporate
have confidence to speak up and acting when they do. A wide variety
Governance reporting on material controls; model risk management;
of channels are provided for colleagues to raise concerns, including
data management; technology resilience and cybersecurity; and
the Group’s whistleblowing channel, HSBC Confidential (see page 80
incident and escalation management. In addition, Global Internal Audit
for further information).
will continue its programme of culture audits to assess the extent that
The Board has delegated responsibility to the GAC to oversee the behaviours reflect HSBC’s purpose, ambition, strategy and values.
effectiveness of HSBC’s whistleblowing procedures. The Chair of the The annual audit plan and material plan updates made in response to
GAC is a Group Senior Manager (’SMF7’), and has a prescribed changes in the Group’s structure and risk profile are approved by the
responsibility as the Whistleblowers’ Champion to ensure integrity of GAC.
HSBC’s policy and procedure on whistleblowing and protecting those
The results of audit work, together with an assessment of the Group’s
who report concerns. As part of his responsibility, the GAC Chair
overall governance, risk management and control framework and
reports to the Board on the GAC’s oversight of whistleblowing as part
processes are reported to the GAC, GRC and local audit and risk
of his regular reporting updates.
committees, as appropriate. This reporting highlights key themes
The Group Head of Regulatory Compliance regularly updates the GAC identified through audit activity, and the output from continuous
on whistleblowing effectiveness, including controls assessments and monitoring. This includes business and regulatory developments and an
internal audit findings. In 2024, the GAC has been briefed on actions independent view of emerging and horizon risk, together with details of
to improve the timeliness of HSBC Confidential investigations against audit coverage and any required changes to the annual audit plan. Based
internal standards. The Committee is also briefed on culture and on regular internal audit reporting to the GAC, private sessions with the
conduct risks from whistleblowing cases and actions taken. In 2024, Group Head of Internal Audit, the Global Professional Practices annual
the GAC Chair also met with the Group Head of Regulatory assessment and quarterly quality assurance updates, the GAC is
Compliance for briefings on significant whistleblowing matters. satisfied with the effectiveness of the Global Internal Audit function
and the appropriateness of its resources. In December 2024, Global
Global Internal Audit Internal Audit’s External Quality Assessment Review was reported to
the GAC, which concluded that Global Internal Audit is a well-
The primary role of the Global Internal Audit function is to help the
respected, independent provider of assurance which is highly valued
Board and Management to strengthen the organisation’s ability to
across the Group and that Global Internal Audit generally conforms
create, protect and sustain value. Global Internal Audit does this by
with the 2017 International Professional Practices framework (’IPPF’),
providing independent, risk based and objective assurance on the
which includes the IIA Standards and Code of Ethics. ’Generally
design and operating effectiveness of the Group’s governance, risk
Conforms’ is the highest rating attainable and means the function is
management and control framework and processes, prioritising the
compliant with the requirements of the Standards in all material
Corporate
governance

[PAGE 270]

Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Board committees
aspects. Global Internal Audit also generally meets the CIIA’s IA Global Internal Audit maintains a close working relationship with
Financial Services Code of Practice requirements. HSBC’s external auditor, PwC. The external auditor is kept informed
of Global Internal Audit’s activities and results, and is afforded free
Executive management is accountable for addressing the matters raised
access to all internal audit reports and supporting records.
by Global Internal Audit, which must be addressed within an appropriate
and agreed timetable. Confirmation to this effect must be provided to
Global Internal Audit, which validates closure on a risk basis.
Principal activities and significant issues considered during 2024
Areas of focus Key issues Conclusions and actions
Significant Expected credit losses – The Committee reviewed economic scenarios for the key countries and territories in
accounting The measurement of expected credit losses involves which the Group operates and challenged management’s judgements on the
judgements significant judgements, particularly under current weightings assigned to the scenarios. The Committee also challenged
economic conditions. There remains uncertainty over management’s judgemental adjustments to account for uncertainty in specific
ECL estimation due to sustained high inflation, sectors and geographies, including the controls underpinning the adjustments
interest rate volatility, economic policy changes process and conditions under which the adjustments would be reduced or removed.
following election outcomes globally and weaker – The Committee continued to monitor management’s updates on areas of particular
economic growth in the Group’s key operating focus, including downside risk in mainland China and Hong Kong commercial real
markets. estate sectors.
Valuation of defined benefit pension obligations – The GAC has considered the effect of changes in key assumptions on the HSBC UK
The valuation of defined benefit pension obligations Bank plc section of the HSBC Bank (UK) Pensions Scheme, which is the principal
involves highly judgemental inputs and actuarial plan of HSBC Group. Details of key assumptions can be found on pages 378 to 379
assumptions which include interest rate, inflation rate, of the ’Notes on the financial statements’.
mortality rates and other demographic assumptions.
Management considered these assumptions in
consultation with actuarial experts to determine the
valuation of the defined benefit obligations.
Valuation of financial instruments – The Committee received periodic updates on the key valuation metrics and
During 2024, management continuously refined its judgements involved in the determination of the fair value of financial instruments,
methodology and approach to valuing the Group’s and agreed with the judgements applied by management, which were validated
portfolio in relation to investments, trading assets and through appropriate governance and control forums.
liabilities and derivatives.
Investment in subsidiaries – The Committee reviewed the judgements in relation to the impairment review of
Management has reviewed investments in HSBC Overseas Holdings (UK) Limited and the key inputs such as projected profits,
subsidiaries for indicators of impairment and underpinning the recoverable amounts of its subsidiaries.
conducted impairment reviews where relevant. These
involve exercising significant judgement to assess the
recoverable amounts of subsidiaries, by reference to
projected future cash flows, discount rates and
regulatory capital assumptions.

[PAGE 271]

Principal activities and significant issues considered during 2024 (continued)
Areas of focus Key issues Conclusions and actions
Significant Investment in an associate – Bank of – The GAC reviewed and challenged management’s judgements and disclosures in
accounting Communications Co., Limited relation to impairment reviews of HSBC’s investment in BoCom, performed using a
judgements During the year, management performed impairment value-in-use methodology.
reviews of HSBC’s investment in Bank of – The Committee reviewed the appropriateness of key assumptions such as projected
Communications Co., Ltd (‘BoCom’). This included future cash flows, with particular focus on the potential impacts of the publicly
assessment as to whether there is indication of announced policies aimed at promoting growth and economic development in China
further impairment, or that previously recognised during the fourth quarter of 2024.
impairment may no longer exist or may have – The GAC considered the consistency of judgements with prior period impairment
decreased. The impairment reviews are complex and reviews, reflecting available details as at 31 December 2024 as to how these
require significant judgements, such as the policies may be enacted.
appropriateness of projected future cash flows,
discount rate, and regulatory capital assumptions.
Interest rate management – The GAC received regular management updates on hedging strategy, including the
During 2024, management proposed a framework for repositioning of structural interest rate hedges.
the disposal of selected hold-to-collect-and-sell – The Committee reviewed controls on, and financial outcomes of, disposals of hold-
securities to improve risk management of hold-to- to-collect-and-sell securities.
collect-and-sell positions and to stabilise and protect
net interest income over the medium term.
Impairment of goodwill and non-financial assets – The Committee reviewed and challenged management’s approach and methodology
During the year, management tested for impairment used for the impairment testing of goodwill and non-financial assets, with a key
goodwill and non-financial assets including additional focus on the projected cash flows included in the forecasts and discount rates used.
consideration for the future impacts resulting from the – The GAC also challenged management’s key judgements and considered the
announced organisational restructure. Key reasonableness of the outcomes against business forecasts and strategic objectives
judgements in this area relate to long-term growth of HSBC.
rates, discount rates and projected future cash flows
to include for each cash-generating unit tested, both
in terms of compliance with the accounting standards
and reasonableness of the forecasts.
Legal proceedings and regulatory matters – The Committee reviewed reports from management on legal proceedings and
Management has used judgement in relation to the regulatory matters, and challenged related accounting judgements and disclosures.
recognition and measurement of provisions, as well
as the existence of contingent liabilities for legal and
regulatory matters.
Tax-related judgements – The Committee considered the recoverability of deferred tax assets. The Committee
HSBC has recognised deferred tax assets to the also considered management’s judgements relating to tax positions in respect of
extent that they are recoverable through expected which the appropriate tax treatment is uncertain, open to interpretation or has been
future taxable profits. Significant judgement continues challenged by the tax authority.
to be exercised in assessing the probability and
sufficiency of future taxable profits, future reversals of
existing taxable temporary differences and expected
outcomes relating to uncertain tax treatments.
Long-term viability and going concern statement – In accordance with the UK and Hong Kong Corporate Governance Codes, the
The GAC has considered a wide range of information Directors carried out a robust assessment of the principal and emerging risks of the
relating to present and future projections of Group and parent company. The GAC considered the statement to be made by the
profitability, cash flows, capital requirements and Directors and concluded that the Group and parent company will be able to continue
capital resources. These considerations include in operation and meet liabilities as they fall due, and that it is appropriate that the
stressed scenarios and the implications of: long-term viability statement covers a period of three years.
– geopolitical tensions including the ongoing Russia-
Ukraine and Middle East conflicts, US-China
tensions and the consequential impacts on the
supply chains globally;
– macroeconomic risks including inflationary risks,
mainland China and Hong Kong real estate sector
risks and economic policy uncertainty following
election outcomes globally; and
– climate risk, operational resilience, and other top
and emerging risks, and the related impact on
profitability, capital and liquidity.
Impact of acquisitions and disposals – The Committee reviewed management’s judgements related to the completion of
HSBC engaged in a number of business acquisitions the sale of the Group's banking business in Canada and of HSBC Argentina, as well
and disposals, notably in Canada, Germany, South as the planned sales of the German private bank business and the business in South
Africa, Argentina, Armenia and Russia. Judgement Africa, such as the timing of classification as held-for-sale and the remeasurement of
was involved in determining the timing of recognition assets.
of assets held-for-sale, gains or losses, and the
measurement of assets and liabilities on acquisition or
disposal.
regulatory reporting 2024 in detail, to ensure these were fair and balanced, and were also transparent on
reporting The Committee considered management’s efforts to the challenges faced and aligned with the Group’s progress in the embedding of
enhance ESG disclosures and associated verification sustainable and climate-related policies across the business. In addition, the
and assurance activities, with a specific focus on the committee reviewed the narrative relating to our net zero ambitions and targets and
net zero transition plan and climate-related disclosures the planned annual net zero transition plan review.
Corporate
governance

[PAGE 272]

Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Board committees
Principal activities and significant issues considered during 2024 (continued)
Areas of focus Key issues Conclusions and actions
Regulatory reporting – The Committee reflected on the continued focus on the quality and reliability of
The GAC monitored progress by management in regulatory reporting by the PRA and other regulators globally.
delivering a sustainable control environment for – The Committee oversaw management’s execution against the agreed remediation
regulatory reporting across the Group. plans, and challenged management on the approach and timeframes to deliver
accurate reporting submissions to the Group’s global regulators. Discussions
included a focus on shared dependencies across various Group-wide programmes,
for example and in particular, data.
Control Sustainable control environment – The Committee received regular updates on the control environment, and broader
environment The GAC oversaw the effectiveness of the internal change framework, to review the impact on financial reporting and tax risk within
control environment of the Group, including with the Group, with regular updates provided on IFRS 17 and Basel 3.1.
regards to the requirements of US Sarbanes-Oxley – In these updates the Committee monitored the assessment of the financial
Act. reporting risk, tax risk and progress made on remediation of US Sarbanes-Oxley Act
significant deficiencies. This oversight helped the Committee to understand the
During the year, the remit of the GAC with regards to progress being made by management to set out strategic actions to remediate
internal control was extended beyond financial identified issues and uplift the control environment to enable a sustainable reduction
reporting controls to include oversight of all internal in risk.
controls. – Management’s updates were supplemented by further focus and assurance work
from Global Internal Audit, including audits of significant programmes of activity
during 2024.
– The Committee oversaw the work to support the Group’s oversight of internal
controls, including the establishment and scope of responsibilities of the new Group
Controls Oversight Office.
Regulatory Basel 3.1 Reform – The Committee received updates on the progress and impact of the Basel 3.1
change The GAC considered the implementation of the Basel programme on the Group, including following the publication by the PRA on
3.1 Reform and the impact on the capital 12 September 2024 of the second near-final policy statement and rules covering
requirements and RWA assurance. This was their implementation.
considered in the context of the strategy and – Management discussed the delayed implementation dates, ongoing uncertainty
structure of the balance sheet. over the final definition of the rules by regulators, and the work undertaken to
mitigate delivery risks given the concentration of delivery during 2024 & 1H25. The
discussion highlighted the dependencies of the Basel 3.1 programme with data,
models and subject matter resources.
– The Committee reviewed the ongoing management of risks, issues and
dependencies and challenged management to prioritise deliverables across each
jurisdiction in line with regulatory timelines. The Committee discussions focused on
ensuring, in each case, that the Group complied with the applicable minimum
standards under the regulation.
Committee performance review
In 2024, the annual review of the performance of the Board meeting in 2025 to provide additional, dedicated time for discussion,
committees, including the GAC, was conducted externally by IBE. On given the range and complexity of topics under the Committee’s
the basis of the review, directors concluded that the GAC continued remit. The review highlighted the continued importance of strong
to operate effectively. interaction between the GAC, GRC, and GTOC agendas, via the
Committee Chairs, and this will continue to be an area of focus in
Positive feedback was noted on the refreshed Committee
2025.
composition, in particular the change of Committee leadership and
the new practices and focus introduced, including on the control Further details of the annual review of the Board and Committee
environment. The Committee will consider scheduling an extra effectiveness can be found on page 257.

[PAGE 273]

Group Risk Committee
“Managing the impacts of political change and policy volatility has been a key trend this
year, with changes in governments globally, having economic and commercial
implications for both the Group and the industry.“
James Forese
Chair
Group Risk Committee
Membership Key responsibilities
Meeting attendance The Group Risk Committee (’GRC’) has overall non-executive
Member since in 20241 responsibility for the oversight of risk-related matters and the risks
James Forese (Chair) Jun 2022 10/10 impacting the Group. The GRC’s key responsibilities include:
Geraldine Buckingham2 Jun 2022 8/8 – overseeing and advising the Board on all risk-related matters,
Dame Carolyn Fairbairn Sep 2021 10/10 including financial and non-financial risks;
Steven Guggenheimer May 2020 10/10 – advising the Board on risk appetite-related matters, and key
Kalpana Morparia3 Jul 2020 8/8 regulatory submissions;
Eileen Murray4 Oct 2024 2/2 – reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s risk management
framework and how effectively management is embedding and
Brendan Nelson Sep 2023 10/10
maintaining an effective risk management control system;
David Nish5 Feb 2020 3/4
– reviewing and challenging the Group’s stress testing exercises;
Swee Lian Teo Oct 2023 10/10
and
1 These included six scheduled meetings, two ad hoc meetings and two – overseeing the Group’s approach to conduct, fairness and the
joint meetings, one with the Group Remuneration Committee and one prevention of financial crime.
with the Group Audit Committee.
2 Geraldine Buckingham stepped down from the GRC on 1 October 2024.
3 Kalpana Morparia stepped down from the GRC on 1 October 2024.
4 Eileen Murray was appointed to the GRC on 1 October 2024.
5 David Nish stepped down from the GRC on 3 May 2024. He was unable
to attend one meeting due to a prior commitment.
I am pleased to present the GRC report. the progress made and our success in remediating previously identified
shortcomings. The Group Recovery Plan was submitted in June and we
The GRC membership has been refreshed this year to ensure that the
await feedback from the PRA.
mix of skills and experience remains appropriate for the business of the
Committee and due to the retirement of David Nish, who stepped down Non-financial risk has necessitated considerable GRC attention this year.
from the Committee in May after completing eight years of service with The fast-paced regulatory landscape has resulted in dynamic, and in
the Group. I would like to thank David for his contribution to the GRC as a many cases, increasing expectations from regulators around the world.
valued member. Geraldine Buckingham and Kalpana Morparia stepped With the ongoing conflict between Russia and Ukraine, navigating
down from the GRC in order to join other Board Committees. Eileen sanctions obligations has been an ongoing challenge, and the Israel-
Murray joined the GRC to complement her chair responsibilities for the Hamas conflict poses a significant risk to security in the region, with
Group Technology and Operations Committee. associated potential customer, staff and operational impacts. With the
publication of Supervisory statement 1/23 – ‘Model risk management
From a macroeconomic perspective, the year has been characterised by
principles for banks’ last year, the GRC has undertaken to better
a fluctuating interest rate outlook. There have been persistent concerns
understand its responsibilities under the new regime, by challenging the
over potential ’hard landings’ in major economies, and ’higher for longer’
revised Group policy and framework, and holding an education session to
policy rate predictions gradually shifting to market expectations for more
increase knowledge. The GRC supported management through an
and rapid rate cuts, though with significant ongoing volatility and
exercise to enhance the HSBC Risk Management Framework, which has
uncertainty. Managing the impacts of political change and policy volatility
resulted in several areas of improvement and brings us into line with
has been a key trend this year, with changes in governments having
industry best practice. The Committee has also considered updates to
economic and commercial implications for both the Group and the
the Global Risk Appetite Framework and Group Risk Appetite Statement
industry. While performance in Hong Kong has improved, mainland China
to promote more transparency and consistency across the Group. The
continues to experience a slow economic recovery. The Group’s
Group continues to prepare for the PRA’s regulatory requirements
wholesale credit risk and retail credit risk portfolios remain resilient
relating to Operational Resilience by improving its capabilities, identifying
despite these challenges and the GRC has regularly reviewed portfolio
its vulnerabilities and undertaking an extensive programme of testing.
performance throughout the year.
Risk culture and its importance has also featured extensively throughout
committee discussions, including the development and implementation
Financial risks have been well managed this year, and the GRC has
of the Risk Culture Framework. Other areas of focus and challenge
continued to focus on treasury, capital and liquidity risk management
include the Group’s data strategy and remediation programme, conduct
activities, including dedicating time to its assessment of the internal
and financial crime, technology and cyber risk, ESG and ongoing Risk
capital adequacy assessment process (‘ICAAP’) and internal liquidity
Transformation programmes. As explained in the Report of the GAC on
adequacy assessment process (‘ILAAP’), which the GRC considers to be
page 265, responsibility for oversight of all internal controls transitioned
one of its primary responsibilities. This is alongside prudential sensitivity
to the GAC during 2024.
analysis and its recovery and resolution responsibilities. The Group made
its Resolvability Assessment Framework public disclosure in August,
Further details on these and other areas of GRC oversight during the year
receiving positive feedback from the Bank of England, which recognised are set out below.
Corporate
governance

[PAGE 274]

Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Board committees
I am proud to have led the GRC this year and am pleased at the The participation of our senior business leaders, including the Group
effective execution of its duties. I am confident the Committee CEO who attended five scheduled GRC meetings in 2024, and the
remains well placed to discharge its responsibilities and provide chief executive officers of the three global businesses reaffirmed the
valuable advice to the Board in 2025 and the future. ownership of, and accountability for, risks in the first line of defence.
Outside of formal meetings, the Chair meets regularly with the Group
Committee governance Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, and, where appropriate, members
of senior management, to discuss priorities and track progress on key
The Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, Group CFO, Group actions. The Chair also meets regularly with the GRC Secretary to
Chief Operating Officer, Group Chief Information Officer, Group Chief ensure the GRC addresses its governance responsibilities. A
People & Governance Officer, Group Chief Legal Officer and Group summary of coverage is set out in the ’Matters considered during
Head of Internal Audit are standing attendees at GRC meetings. The 2024’ table.
Chair and members of the GRC also hold private meetings with the
Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, the Group Head of Strategy
and Corporate Development, the Group Head of Internal Audit and the
external auditor, PwC, following scheduled GRC meetings.
Matters considered during 2024
Jan2 Feb Mar2 May Jun Jul Sep Dec
Holistic enterprise risk monitoring including
Group risk profile1 u u u u u u u u
Risk framework and policies u u u u u u u u
Treasury and traded risk u u u u u u u u
Wholesale/retail credit risk u u u u u u u u
Financial reporting risk u u u u u u u u
Resilience risk (including IT and operational risk) u u u u u u u u
Financial crime risk u u u u u u u u
People and conduct risk u u u u u u u u
Regulatory compliance risk u u u u u u u u
Legal risk u u u u u u u u
Model risk u u u u u u u u
Climate risk u u u u u u u u
Strategic risk u u u u u u u u
u Matter considered u Matter not considered
1 The GRC receives updates on all risk types through the Group risk profile, which is presented to all regular meetings.
2 The January and March meetings are ad hoc meetings with a reduced agenda.
How the Committee discharged its responsibilities
Activities outside formal meetings These interactions furthered the GRC’s understanding of the risk profile
of the principal subsidiaries, leading to more comprehensive review and
The GRC held a number of meetings outside its regular schedule to
challenge by the GRC.
facilitate deeper and more effective oversight of the risks impacting
the Group. Areas covered included ICAAP and ILAAP preparations, Collaborative oversight by the GRC, GAC,
interest rate risk in the banking book, operational resilience and model
Group Technology and Operations Committee
risk management, as well as briefings on the Resolvability
Assessment Framework and the Group Risk Appetite Framework. (’GTOC’) and Group Remuneration Committee
Further details of these sessions are included in the ’Principal
(’RemCo’)
activities and significant issues considered during 2024’ table starting
on page 273. The GRC worked closely with the GAC and the GTOC to address any
areas of significant overlap, and to oversee risk and controls more
Connectivity with principal subsidiary risk
comprehensively through inter-committee communications and joint
committees meetings.
During 2024, the GRC continued to actively engage with principal The GRC and the GAC convened on one occasion to consider a range
subsidiary risk committees through the scheduled participation of of issues, including changes being made to how each committee
principal subsidiary risk committee chairs at relevant GRC meetings, and manages and oversees internal controls.
through regular connectivity meetings with the principal subsidiary risk
committee chairs. These meetings are also attended by the Group Chief The GRC and GTOC worked closely to ensure appropriate alignment
Risk and Compliance Officer. This participation and connectivity in the review, discussion, challenge and conclusions on topics
promoted the sharing of information and best practices between the including risk and control issues relating to digital assets and
GRC and principal subsidiary risk committees, as well as encouraging currencies, the Group's data strategy, artificial intelligence and
director relationships. Principal subsidiary risk committee chairs were cybersecurity. This ensured that the committees benefited from each
invited to attend a joint meeting between the GRC and the GAC in order other’s expertise and challenge.
that a consistent message on changes to committee responsibilities
Coordination between the GRC, GAC and the GTOC is supported by
with regards to internal controls was received.
cross-membership. The GRC Chair attends the GAC, the GTOC Chair
The GRC has also received certifications from the principal subsidiary attends the GRC, and the GAC Chair attends both the GTOC and
risk committees, confirming that management had been challenged on GRC, strengthening connectivity and the flow of information between
the quality of the information provided, the committees had reviewed the committees.
the actions proposed by management to address any emerging issues
and that risk management and internal control systems had been
operating effectively.

[PAGE 275]

The GRC and Group RemCo work collaboratively to consider risk adjustment to the variable pay pool as part of the Group reward process, given
the integral nature of risk management to the Group’s performance culture. This year, the committee has also considered improvements to the
Risk and Reward framework.
Principal activities and significant issues considered during 2024
Risk areas Key issues Conclusions and actions
Holistic Macroeconomic, geopolitical and other emerging – The GRC closely monitored geopolitical and macroeconomic risks that could impact
enterprise risk risks have the potential to present significant the Group’s strategy, business performance or operations. These risks were
monitoring, challenges to revenue growth, operational resilience exacerbated by ongoing conflict between Russia-Ukraine, the Israel-Hamas conflict
including Group and our commitment to serve customers and local and rising political tensions between the US and China. The resulting sanctions risk
risk profile markets. from these events has required significant focus and oversight by the Committee.
While market sentiment and economic growth had been more positive than forecast,
the real estate sector continued to experience pressure, particularly in mainland
China and Hong Kong.
– The GRC continued to track top and emerging risks, our risk appetite and other
management information metrics, as well as other early warning measures to
understand sensitivities and the likelihood of the potential impact to our operations,
customers and stakeholders. The GRC provided oversight and challenge of a robust
book of strategic management actions to respond to potential downside scenarios.
– The GRC requested reports on the risk profile of key business areas in local
geographies and invited principal subsidiary chairs and relevant management to
attend and participate in discussions.
Risk framework Effective risk management policies, frameworks, – The Group has a risk appetite statement to define risk appetite and tolerance
and policies appetites and thresholds, and oversight of these, are thresholds, which forms the basis of the risk management procedures for the first
essential for HSBC to safely, consistently and and second lines of defence, the Group’s capacity and capabilities to support
sustainably support customers, manage risk and customers, and the achievement of strategic goals. The GRC maintained oversight of
deliver strategic aims. the Group’s risk appetite framework, reviewing changes to the Group’s risk appetite
statements and recommending these to the Board for approval. This year's update to
the risk appetite statement was focused on providing essential coverage of the key
risks facing the Group and setting thresholds that reflected its desired risk profile for
these risks. A review of the Group risk appetite framework was also undertaken to
assess the dimensions of the framework and consider principles and approaches to
support effective and consistent appetite setting for the Group’s broader business
strategy. Areas of proposed improvement included: expanding assessments against
appetite to an evaluation-based risk appetite that considers the entire risk profile; and
enhancing Board-level overall statements to explicitly define the Group’s targeted
appetite and the risks outside of appetite or tolerance, as well as qualitative context.
– The GRC met with the Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer and the Global Head
of Enterprise Risk Management individually to ensure clarity and understanding of
the changes being proposed, and how the improved design would support better
outcomes for the Group. The framework has been validated by Oliver Wyman and
brings the risk appetite framework into line with industry peers.
– The GRC also reviewed and approved proposed annual updates to HSBC’s Risk
Management Framework, providing a standardised, Group-wide approach to the
identification, treatment and reporting of risk.
Treasury risk It is essential that capital and liquidity risk is – The Group proactively tracks and maintains safeguarding of its capital and liquidity
monitored effectively, and the Group takes active positions. It performs internal and regulatory stress tests to measure resilience and
steps to maintain its capital and liquidity positions. performance against a range of stress scenarios, and to challenge the strategic
Regular stress testing is undertaken to ascertain the management actions that could be applied against anticipated stress events and
Group’s operation when under stress. Developing headwinds.
action plans and guardrails to cover scenarios of – The GRC conducted its annual review and challenge of the Group’s ICAAP and ILAAP,
recovery or resolution at a subsidiary or Group level and provided its recommendation to the Board for approval. The GRC continued to
is an essential part of HSBC’s prudential monitor Interest Rate Risk in the Banking Book (’IRRBB’) sensitivity, structural hedging
management. strategy and the ongoing activities to develop the Group’s capabilities for internal
reporting and enhanced external disclosures. An education session on IRRBB was held
in April to provide the Committee with the Group’s latest position, context around the
regulatory feedback and an overview of the different components of IRRBB.
– The GRC reviewed the Group’s ongoing activities to identify, manage and mitigate
treasury, capital and liquidity risks, including early warning indicators, sensitivity
analysis, capital and liquidity reporting and adequacy.
– In relation to stress testing exercises, the GRC reviewed the Group Recovery Plan
stress scenarios in March and September. The GRC also considered the Group-wide
internal stress test, scenarios and outputs, which contribute to the Group’s
commitment to regularly test the resilience of the balance sheet and profit and loss
under multiple scenarios of varying severity. An internal climate scenario analysis was
undertaken, with results presented in February 2024.
– As part of its regulatory obligations, the Group is required to show how its recovery
and resolution strategies could be executed effectively and identify any risks to
successful implementation. The GRC continued its oversight of the Group’s progress in
maintaining and developing its capabilities under the Bank of England’s requirements
for resolvability. The GRC has been regularly updated on the Group’s implementation
of the PRA’s Trading Activity Wind Down requirements in preparation for the March
2025 deadline, which will require the Group to have implemented a set of capabilities
that will allow the execution of a full or partial wind down of its trading activities in an
orderly fashion. In March 2024, the GRC reviewed the Resolvability Assessment
Framework public disclosure and made a recommendation to the Board for approval. In
June 2024, management presented the 2024 Group Recovery Plan ahead of its
submission to the PRA in June. The plan was also recommended to the Board for
approval. The Chairs of the GRC and the GAC both received comprehensive briefings
prior to the presentation of both submissions.
Corporate
governance

[PAGE 276]

Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Board committees
Principal activities and significant issues considered during 2024 (continued)
Risk areas Key issues Conclusions and actions
Model risk HSBC can face risks from inappropriate or incorrect – The GRC has had significant engagement on model risk management due to the
business decisions arising from the use of models release of Supervisory Statement (SS) 1/23 – ‘Model risk management principles for
that have been inadequately designed, implemented banks’ in 2023, and the required remediation in order to be in compliance with the
or used, or do not perform in line with expectations PRA’s new expectations. The GRC has overseen revisions to the model risk policy
and predictions. and framework, plus the self-assessment exercise required by the statement. In
addition, a separate education session was held in July, providing an in-depth
overview of model risk, how models are used within the business, and with a
specific focus on Wholesale IRB Models and the data challenges.
Resilience / A failure in resilience could lead to a situation where – The GRC continued its oversight of the Group’s implementation of operational
Operational risk HSBC customers might suffer significant disruption resilience capabilities in line with PRA and FCA policies. The GRC reviewed and
to services or loss of data. challenged the operational resilience self-assessment against regulatory expectations
and was briefed on the methodology used to identify vulnerabilities from the
Technology risks (including cybersecurity) could mapping and testing of Important Group Business Services and Entity Important
cause unmanaged disruption to any IT system within Business Services in line with regulatory policy. An additional briefing session on
HSBC, as a result of malicious acts, accidental operational resilience was held in June to prepare the Committee for the self-
actions, poor IT practice, or IT system failure. assessment in June.
– The GRC regularly reviewed reports on the Group’s technology risk profile, as well as
receiving updates on cybersecurity risk. Reports have focused on the risk and control
environment, as well as the current threat landscape and emerging risks. The GRC
will continue to work with the Group Technology and Operations Committee to
consider the risks and opportunities in the use of AI (generative and advanced) and
digital assets and currencies in 2025.
– The GRC continued with its strong focus on understanding the Group’s data risk
landscape, its data strategy and data management programme. This has included the
tracking of progress made against the Group’s data execution programme and
timelines are being monitored closely.
– Third-party risk management received additional focus this year in light of a number
of external incidents that had largely occurred due to the failure of third-party
vendors. The GRC will continue this focus into 2025, working closely with the GTOC.
Wholesale/ HSBC faces risk from the possibility of losses – The GRC received briefings on the macroeconomic and policy landscape impacting
retail credit risk resulting from the failure of a counterparty to meet credit risk, both retail and commercial, and reviewed updates on the strategy and
its agreed obligations to pay the Group. The approach to managing credit risk and credit risk capabilities. The GRC received regular
commercial real estate sector has presented unique updates on the Group’s expected credit losses and provisions, and the credit risk
challenges for the wholesale credit risk portfolio, arising from the wholesale portfolio and mortgage books. Throughout the year, the
particularly for office properties. GRC focused on building even stronger credit capabilities for specialty sectors,
including the continued implementation of the Country and Industry components of the
Credit Risk Appetite Framework.
– The GRC challenged on changes made to the Commercial Real Estate cap to ensure
adequate control of the business, given commercial real estate is the largest corporate
sector concentration in the wholesale portfolio.
– The GRC had oversight of the development of stronger portfolio management
capabilities and further improving the Group’s credit risk culture. A key focus area
continued to be maintaining appropriate tools and treatments available to our
customers to support anyone experiencing financial difficulty, having the right people
available to give the right advice and ensuring that conduct and good customer
outcomes are first priorities.
Financial HSBC is exposed to risks where controls supporting – While the GAC has primary responsibility in relation to internal control systems
reporting risk the reporting of its financial statements are not (including financial controls), with further detail on page 265, the GRC receives reports
effective, resulting in material error or misstatement on entity level control assessments to enable the oversight of the effectiveness of
such controls in support of the Group’s financial reporting.
Financial crime There is a risk that HSBC’s products and services – The GRC was updated regularly on the operation and effectiveness of the systems and
risk could be exploited for criminal activity, including controls pertaining to financial crime risk across geographies and businesses. This
fraud, bribery and corruption, tax evasion, sanctions included reviewing updates to the Group’s financial crime policy, enhancing the
and export control violations, money laundering, approach to insider risk, and monitoring the fraud landscape and strategies for
terrorist financing and proliferation financing. managing fraud risk.
– Specific updates on Russia sanctions have been necessary with the ongoing conflict
Insider threat also presents the risk that an individual between Russia and Ukraine, in particular due to the increasing severity of US
with access to bank data, systems, infrastructure or sanctions and the Group's unique global position in many of the affected markets. The
finances could use that access to intentionally cause GRC has been appraised of all management engagement with local governments and
harm to the bank and its customers. regulators in impacted regions.
– The GRC increased their focus on Insider Threat, as HSBC’s inherent risk has increased
due to factors including cost-of-living challenges and inflation affecting markets, the
potential impact of restructures on staff morale, and the inherent risks associated with
growth.

[PAGE 277]

Principal activities and significant issues considered during 2024 (continued)
Risk areas Key issues Conclusions and actions
People and People are central to everything HSBC does – The GRC considered people risk issues with a focus on capacity, capability, culture and
conduct risk and it is essential to manage the risk of not conduct. It also considered remuneration risks, and strategies to retain talent and acquire new
having the right people with the right skills, capabilities in key areas, with a particular focus on approaches to maintain low attrition rates.
and to ensure staff always have the – The GRC now considers an Annual Conduct Update, further to the implementation of the
customer’s interest at the forefront. Purpose Led Conduct Framework in 2023.
Monitoring of conduct outcomes is integral to – The GRC and Group RemCo met in September to consider improvements to the Risk and
ensuring the needs of our customers are Reward framework. The proposed changes support better understanding of the risk factors
adequately met. used to drive performance assessments and how judgements made align to the application
of the Risk Modifier.
– The GRC met in November to review the Group’s risk and reward alignment framework to
promote sound and effective risk management in meeting PRA and FCA remuneration rules
and expectations.
Regulatory As a result of operating in multiple – The GRC and its members actively engage with regulators and act on feedback. The
compliance risk jurisdictions globally, HSBC is exposed to risks Committee closely monitors the progress of regulatory remediation activities, with support
associated with inappropriate market conduct from the Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer as well as principal subsidiary risk
or breaching related financial services committee chairs. Throughout the year, the GRC had oversight over reports providing
regulatory standards or expectations. feedback from regulators, including a summary of regulatory deliverables to ensure HSBC
remains in line with regulatory standards and expectations.
– The GRC also considered the 'Statement of Compliance' exercise, which is an assessment of
Significant Regulatory Matters undertaken for principal subsidiary CEOs, providing an opinion
as to how well managed these are and where gaps may exist. Further to a pilot undertaken in
Mexico, this approach is now being rolled out across all principal subsidiaries.
Legal risk HSBC is exposed to the risk of financial loss, – The GRC oversees and receives regular updates on key legal developments and material legal
legal or regulatory action resulting from issues from the Group Chief Legal Officer. The updates also cover material litigation and
contractual risk, dispute management risk, regulatory enforcement matters and an overview of the legal risk profile of HSBC.
breach of competition law or intellectual
property risk.
Climate risk Environmental, social and governance risks – The GRC remained focused on climate risk and greenwashing risk. The GRC received reports
present significant risks to organisations both on climate risk management and sustainability risk policies, while maintaining oversight of
in terms of their own operations and how they delivery plans and risk appetite breaches to help ensure that the Group continues to develop
engage with stakeholders and communities. and maintains robust climate risk management capabilities. Reputation risk considerations
have also formed part of these discussions.
– The GRC approved the 2024 internal climate scenario analysis in February 2024. The
outcomes will be used to respond to multiple regional regulatory climate exercises as well as
meeting regulatory expectations on incorporating climate change within the Group’s strategic
plans and ICAAP.
Committee performance review Focus of future activities
2024/2025 The GRC’s focus for 2025 will include the following activities:
In 2024 the annual review of the performance of the Board – to continue to monitor the effective delivery of risk transformation
Committees, including the GRC, was conducted externally by IBE. On programmes and to seek assurance that the enhanced capabilities
the basis of the review, Directors concluded that the GRC continued have been fully embedded into the business;
to operate effectively.
– to support the continued enhancement of the Group's risk appetite
Areas for enhancement were identified, including the need for: and risk management frameworks further to the improvements
continued focus on paper quality and content to increase focus on the made in 2024, particularly in light of continued geopolitical and
most significant enterprise and emerging risks; ongoing refinement of macroeconomic headwinds;
the GRC agenda to streamline and enable greater attention to – to continue to assess the Group's operational resilience capability
strategic risk areas; continued additional educational and ‘deep dive’ and to track the completion of the programme of work required by
sessions outside of the formal schedule of meetings to allow for the PRA rules coming into effect in March 2025;
greater debate, insights and learnings, coupled with other
– to continue to support and challenge the remediation activities
mechanisms to guide the scheduled Committee discussions; ongoing
identified to enhance Model Risk Management capabilities in line
work with Management to ensure effective and timely follow up to
with SS 1/23;
Committee challenge. The collaboration across the GRC, GAC and
GTOC agendas, via the Committee Chairs, will continue in 2025. – to continue to oversee treasury risk to strengthen our capital and
liquidity management capabilities;
The outcomes of the performance review have been reported to the
Board, and the GRC will track the progress in implementing – to continue the oversight of recovery and resolution planning
recommendations during 2025. activities to assess our capabilities if such a situation arises, with
particular focus on our Trading Activity Wind Down obligations;
Further details of the annual review of the Board and Committee
– to monitor delivery against our climate ambitions and the
effectiveness can be found on page 257.
development of appropriate data and model management tools
and capabilities; and
– to continue to oversee financial crime risk and the strengthening of
the financial crime control framework, including proactive
management by the business.
Corporate
governance

[PAGE 278]

Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Board committees
Group Technology and Operations
Committee
“The Committee oversees all aspects of the Group’s technology and operations
strategies, which enable the efficient provision of resilient, sustainable, and innovative
products and services to our customers.“
Eileen Murray
Chair
Group Technology and Operations Committee
Membership Key responsibilities
Meeting attendance The GTOC has overall responsibility for the oversight of HSBC’s
Member since in 20241 technology and operations strategies and alignment with the overall
Eileen Murray (Chair) Mar 2024 7/7 HSBC Group strategy, including global business and global function
Steven Guggenheimer Mar 2024 7/7 priorities. The GTOC’s key responsibilities include:
Kalpana Morparia2 Mar 2024 6/7 – reviewing, challenging, and making recommendations to the
Board on technology strategy and related matters;
Brendan Nelson Mar 2024 7/7
Swee Lian Teo Mar 2024 7/7 – overseeing HSBC’s data strategy and framework;
– overseeing HSBC’s cybersecurity strategy and framework; and
1 These included seven scheduled meetings. – overseeing HSBC’s global operations, including payments,
2 Kalpana Morparia was unable to attend the November meeting due to a
procurement, corporate real estate and operational resilience.
prior commitment.
I am pleased to present the first report of the Group Technology and The GTOC has also received regular updates on management’s
Operations Committee (‘GTOC’), which was established in March programme to meet regulatory deliverables and address technology-
2024 as the Group Technology Committee with the responsibility for related risk and control matters and we have again challenged the
oversight of execution against the Group’s Technology strategy. In approach to prioritisation and delivery timelines.
December 2024, the remit of the Committee was extended to also
Other areas of focus for the GTOC during the year have included the
cover global operations, including payments, procurement, corporate
Group’s data and cybersecurity programmes. We provided input and
real estate, and operational resilience, reflecting changes to the Group
challenge to management’s remediation plans and efforts to enhance
organisational structure and the importance of operations to delivery
technology, cybersecurity, and data metrics and key performance
of the Group’s strategy. I would like to thank Steve Guggenheimer,
indicators. We also considered the innovation agenda, including
Kalpana Morparia, Brendan Nelson and Swee Lian Teo, all of whom
opportunities in respect of artificial intelligence and digital assets.
joined the Committee alongside me in March. Each director has
brought their unique skills, experience and perspectives to the
To support engagement and connectivity across the Group on key
matters we have spent time on.
technology matters, I invited observers from each of the four largest
principal subsidiaries to join the GTOC meetings. We held two
Since our first meeting in March 2024, a key area of oversight and
subsidiary-focused meetings during 2024, with a focus on operational
focus has been oversight of the enterprise-wide programme
resilience, including data and third-party risks. We discussed
established to simplify the Group’s technology infrastructure, enhance
regulatory regimes across the different markets, progress against
system resilience, and accelerate digital transformation across the
agreed timelines, challenges to meet expectations, and dependencies
bank. The GTOC has challenged management on its plans and
on Group-level programmes and deliverables.
prioritisation and has overseen progress in execution of what is a
multi-year deliverable, seeking assurance from Risk and Global
In October 2024, the GTOC hosted a training session to which all
Internal Audit on the robustness of the approach.
Board members were invited, to hear external insights and
perspectives on third-party suppliers, including key risks and trends.
The GTOC has worked closely with management since its inception
to reinforce and enhance the guardrails supporting technology
Further details on these and other areas of GTOC oversight during the year
investments and transformation, the tracking of benefits and are set out below.
outcomes, and to enhance accountability for delivery. It has received
updates on key projects and programmes, and has considered the
technology deliverables within our payments, core banking, and global
private banking and wealth strategies.

[PAGE 279]

Committee governance
The GTOC operates under delegated authority from the Board and Chief Information Officer, Group Chief Operating Officer, Group Chief
advises the Board on matters concerning the Group’s technology and Risk and Compliance Officer, and Group Head of Internal Audit, as
operations strategies and related matters. The GTOC Chair reports on required.
the key matters and discussions at the subsequent Board meeting,
The GTOC Chair meets regularly with the Group Chief Information
and the Board also has access to the GTOC papers and receives
Officer and Group Chief Operating Officer and other members of
copies of meeting agendas and minutes.
senior management, to discuss priorities and track progress on key
The Group Chief Information Officer, Group Chief Operating Officer, actions. The Chair also meets regularly with the GTOC Secretary to
Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, Global Head of Enterprise ensure the GTOC addresses its governance responsibilities. A
Risk Management, Group CFO, Group Head of Internal Audit, and the summary of coverage is set out in the ’Matters considered during
external auditor are standing attendees at GTOC meetings. The Chair 2024’ table.
and members of the GTOC also hold private meetings with the Group
Matters considered during 2024
Mar May Jun Jul Sep Nov Dec
Technology u u u u u u u
Investment and transformation u u u u u u u
Resilience u u u u u u u
Innovation u u u u u u u
Cybersecurity u u u u u u u
Data u u u u u u u
Resource and capability u u u u u u u
u Matter considered u Matter not considered
How the Committee discharged its responsibilities
Engagement outside formal meetings Collaborative oversight by the GTOC, GRC
The GTOC Chair held several meetings outside its regular schedule to and GAC
facilitate deeper and more effective oversight of all key topics under
The GTOC worked closely with the GRC and the GAC to address any
its remit. The Chair regularly met with key stakeholders, including
areas of significant overlap, and to oversee technology more
executives, programme sponsors, second and third line of defence,
comprehensively through inter-committee communications.
and independent third parties.
The committees worked closely to ensure appropriate alignment in
On 16 October 2024, KPMG held an education session on Third Party
the review, discussion, challenge, and conclusions on topics including
Management for the HSBC Holdings Board covering industry insights,
technology, cybersecurity, data and innovation. This ensured that the
trends, and the regulatory landscape. Further details of this and
committees benefited from each other’s expertise and challenge.
similar sessions are included in the ’Principal activities and significant
issues considered during 2024’ table starting on page 277. On 16 September 2024, members of the Group Technology, Group
Risk and Group Remuneration Committees met to consider proposed
Connectivity with principal subsidiaries
changes to HSBC’s risk and reward alignment framework and to
Board members representing the four principal subsidiaries (UK, Asia, promote accountability for technology deliverables.
Europe and the US) are invited to attend the GTOC. As described
Coordination between the GTOC, GRC and the GAC is supported by
above, two additional ‘GTOC - Principal Subsidiaries’ meetings were
cross-membership. The GTOC Chair attends the GRC, the GRC Chair
held covering Operational Resilience (resiliency challenges, regulatory
attends the GAC, and the GAC Chair attends both the GTOC and
requirements and action plans to address resilience issues).
GRC, strengthening connectivity and the flow of information between
the committees.
Principal activities and significant issues considered during 2024
Area of focus Key issues Conclusions and actions
Technology There is Group-wide focus to – The GTOC regularly reviewed and challenged updates in relation to the technology strategy and the
strategy implement the technology strategy. programmes in place to deliver. The committee oversaw and requested more granularity on
This requires clarity and alignment of timelines, the prioritisation approach, key risks, dependencies and challenges.
priorities and collaboration across – Additionally, the GTOC challenged that focus, funding and resource was being applied to enable the
businesses, functions, and markets to execution timelines to be met and requested assurances from Risk and Global Internal Audit on the
deliver the most critical initiatives. robustness of the approach and progress being made.
Technology The Board and Board Committees rely – The GTOC provided detailed feedback and insights on work to refine Board level metrics to ensure
strategy: on quality management information, strong governance and accountability across technology, cybersecurity and data. Discussions
management KPIs and metrics to effectively included the calibration of quantifiable triggers and tolerance levels.
information and oversee the areas under their remit.
KPIs
Investment and A number of significant programmes – The GTOC challenged management on the quality of business cases and provided inputs to the
transformation with material technology components enhanced investment case framework, which has been refined to require:
have been subject to replanning and/ – articulation of risks and dependencies to ensure that these are well understood by
or did not deliver the benefits management, and appropriately considered;
expected. – detailed insights on the opportunity and peer insights; and
– accurate and informed cost estimations.
Investment and Payments is a significant proposition – The GTOC provided oversight of the Global Payments Solutions strategy, including the risk profile,
transformation: for HSBC and is subject to an ongoing effectiveness of the control environment, investment and expected benefits, and alignment of the
Global Payments investment programme. current technology stack to the desired target state architecture.
Solutions
Corporate
governance

[PAGE 280]

Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Board committees
Principal activities and significant issues considered during 2024 (continued)
Area of focus Key issues Conclusions and actions
Investment and GPB and Wealth is a significant – The GTOC provided oversight of the Global Private Banking and Wealth strategy, including the risk
transformation: proposition for HSBC and is subject to profile, effectiveness of the control environment, investment and expected benefits, and alignment
Global Private an ongoing investment programme. of the current technology stack to the desired target state architecture.
Banking and
Wealth
Resilience Operational resilience is a key priority – The GTOC regularly discussed actions being taken to improve resiliency, including work to simplify the
for HSBC technology estate and to enhance controls to reduce service interruptions impacting customers.
– In view of our reliance on services provided by third parties, the GTOC also reviewed the third-party risk
management framework that is in place to monitor associated risks and identify and implement
mitigating actions, and provided oversight of third-party related topics in relation to: regulatory feedback/
trends; technology and cybersecurity resilience; third-party security risk; spend and usage
– In addition, committee members met with principal subsidiaries to discuss resiliency challenges,
regulatory requirements, and action plans to address resilience issues.
Innovation While AI, and particularly generative – The GTOC has reviewed strategies to leverage the opportunities presented by innovation and new
strategy AI, is likely to provide much technologies, including in relation to digital assets and generative AI. These discussions set clear
opportunity for the bank, the risks expectations with regard to risk, control and governance frameworks, enhancements (where required)
need to be understood and managed and associated funding needs.
appropriately.
Cybersecurity Cybersecurity remains one of the – The GTOC provided oversight of cybersecurity; receiving regular updates from the Group Chief
most significant risks faced by the Information Officer and Group Chief Information Security Officer relating to: key controls; service and
financial services industry. resilience; the external threat environment; enhancements to metrics; and progress updates on key
programmes. The Committee also discussed the impacts of cyber issues experienced by suppliers and
challenged management on what additional actions could be taken to mitigate those risks.
– The GTOC reviewed and challenged regular updates on the cybersecurity programme, including
specific focus on the results of an industry-wide peer review and the timelines for ongoing
enhancements to the cyber risk and control framework.
Data Significant work is ongoing to develop – The GTOC requested several specific updates on the Group’s data remediation programme,
the Group’s data strategy and deliver including on progress made, and challenges encountered, to meet regulatory commitments.
the data remediation programme. Additionally, the Committee challenged to understand the assessment of the control landscape,
residual risk and plans to mitigate, both short and long term. The GTOC challenged management to
articulate a clear data strategy, and this will remain an area of material focus in 2025.
– The Committee demonstrated oversight of the key priorities to implement improvements to the
integrity of regulatory reporting; enhance data quality measures across priority processes; and meet
regulatory commitments.
Resource and Having the right skills and resources is – The GTOC reviewed management's technology people and capability plans. Key resources,
capability critical to achieving our strategic dependencies on subject matter experts, and future skills needs were also considered in respect of
ambitions. programme updates.
Committee performance review Focus of future activities
In 2024 the annual review of the effectiveness of the Board The GTOC’s focus for 2025 will include the following activities:
committees, including the GTOC, was conducted externally by IBE.
– Oversight and review of the Group's global operations strategy,
On the basis of the review, directors concluded that the GTOC was
including payments, procurement, corporate real estate and
operating effectively.
operational resilience;
Positive feedback was noted on the leadership of the GTOC Chair, the
– continued oversight and review of the Group’s technology
quality of information received, and the responsiveness of
strategy, cybersecurity strategy and related matters;
management in relation to the topics of focus during 2024. The
review highlighted the importance of continued connectivity between – continued oversight of key transformation programmes, with a
the Board Committees, in particular the GTOC and GRC given the particular focus on accountability;
overlap of issues within their respective remits. – continued focus on data remediation activities and management’s
articulation of its data strategy, and the monitoring of progress to
Further details of the annual review of the Board and Committee
execute;
performance can be found on pages 257 to 258.
– continued focus on the resilience of services; and
– continued consideration of technology innovation initiatives and
how these might be leveraged in support of the Group strategy.

[PAGE 281]

Directors’ remuneration report
“Our new remuneration policy will support the delivery of our strategy and materially
strengthen the alignment between performance, pay and shareholder interests.“
Dame Carolyn Fairbairn
Chair
Group Remuneration Committee
Membership1 Key responsibilities
Member Meeting attendance The Committee’s key responsibilities include:
since in 2024
– making recommendations to the Board, for approval by
Dame Carolyn Fairbairn (Chair) Sep 2021 9/9
shareholders, on the Group’s remuneration policy;
Geraldine Buckingham Jun 2022 9/9
– setting the overarching principles, parameters and governance
Rachel Duan Sep 2021 9/9
framework of the Group’s remuneration policy;
Ann Godbehere Sep 2023 9/9
José Antonio Meade May 2021 9/9 – approving the remuneration of executive Directors and other senior
Kuribreña Group employees; and
Kalpana Jaisingh Morparia2 Oct 2024 2/2 – regularly reviewing the effectiveness of the remuneration policy of
Eileen Murray May 2023 9/9 the Group and its subsidiaries in the context of strategy, culture,
conduct and effective risk management.
1 All members of the Committee are independent non-executive Directors
of HSBC Holdings plc.
2 Kalpana Jaisingh Morparia joined the Committee on 1 October 2024.
All disclosures in the Directors’ remuneration report are unaudited unless otherwise stated. Disclosures marked as audited should be
considered audited in the context of financial statements taken as a whole.
Dear shareholders, Context for the review and overall remuneration structure
In 2014, as a result of European legislation (CRD IV), the Prudential
I am delighted to present our 2024 Directors’ remuneration report on
Regulation Authority (’PRA’) and Financial Conduct Authority (’FCA’)
behalf of the members of the Group Remuneration Committee (the
introduced a 2:1 cap on the ratio between variable and fixed pay for
’Committee’). I would like to thank Geraldine Buckingham for her
material risk takers (’MRTs’). In response to this change, in line with
valued contribution and to welcome Kalpana Morparia.
other global banks operating in Europe, we introduced Fixed Pay
I also thank you, our shareholders, for your support of our Allowances (’FPAs’) so that HSBC could balance being competitive on
remuneration resolutions at the 2024 Annual General Meeting a total compensation basis and complying with the remuneration
(’AGM’). Our implementation of the current Directors’ remuneration rules.
policy and our resolution to provide the Committee with discretion to
For our executive Directors, we converted part of their variable pay
set an appropriate variable to fixed pay ratio received respectively
opportunity (annual incentive of 300% of salary and long-term
over 97% and 99% of votes cast in favour.
incentive of 600% of salary) into new FPAs at an effective discount of
The most significant item on the Committee's agenda this year was 50% to reflect the greater certainty of fixed pay. The change
the review of the Directors’ remuneration policy. The changes and materially weakened the link between performance and pay and
supporting rationale are set out over the following pages. We present reduced the maximum total remuneration opportunity from
the formal policy for shareholder approval before describing the key £13,125,000 to £10,725,000 for the Group CEO and from £7,350,000
remuneration decisions for our executive Directors for 2024, our to £6,000,000 for the Group CFO. The total opportunity has remained
approach to wider workforce reward and Committee governance. largely unchanged over the last decade, despite subsequent changes
Further information and disclosure is provided at the end of the report to the Directors’ remuneration policy and changes in incumbents and
to meet our reporting obligations in the UK and Hong Kong. scope of the Group CFO role.
2025 executive Director remuneration policy Over several years, the Committee has expressed concerns that the
2:1 cap was having a material impact on the competitiveness of the
Commencing in 2023, the Committee undertook a detailed review of executive Director remuneration opportunity at HSBC versus
the executive Directors’ remuneration policy to ensure it remains international peers.
appropriate given the size and complexity of the Group, the talent
market in which we compete and regulatory and best practice Now that the 2:1 variable to fixed pay ratio has been removed by UK
developments. regulators, the Committee feels it is the right time to return to a
remuneration structure with a higher proportion of variable pay linked
We extensively engaged with major shareholders, representing 65% to performance that is more closely aligned to the experience of our
of those who voted at the 2024 AGM, and proxy advisory bodies. shareholders. This will also help address compression between the
Shareholders were supportive of the proposals and understood the total compensation of our executive Directors and some of our Group
rationale for change. We received valuable feedback on our Operating Committee roles.
disclosure, which we have covered within this report. Our discussions
focused on the need for stretching performance targets, and some We have received strong support from shareholders for our existing
individual shareholders had feedback on specific performance policy over many years, which we discussed in our recent
measures. The Committee carefully considered all feedback received, engagement. In determining the new policy, the Committee
which has directly influenced final proposals. considered several different incentive structures, recognising the
diversity in approach among our global peers. This included more
Corporate
governance

[PAGE 282]

OEC
puorG
Pre-2014
2014
Policy
2023
Policy
Current
(2024)
OFC
puorG
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report
complex models such as hybrid structures, the use of restricted stock compression. We tested this with shareholders during our
and retaining part of the FPA. These were ultimately rejected in the engagement who were largely supportive of the approach.
interests of simplicity and transparency, and a fundamental desire for
In line with current market practice and in direct response to investor
pay to be linked to performance and shareholder value creation.
feedback, we propose to increase the shareholding guideline to equal
The Committee concluded that the current framework of an annual the LTI opportunity of 600% of salary for both the Group CEO and
incentive and single performance-based long-term incentive is most Group CFO.
appropriate. It is a simple and well understood structure and supports
The Committee also intends to implement a post-employment
the delivery of our strategy and alignment with performance through
shareholding guideline in line with Investment Association guidelines,
the cycle.
which will apply for two-years post cessation of employment.
Evolution of our maximum opportunity over time (£000)
Overall, the structure ensures that a significant portion of pay is tied
to the creation of long-term, sustainable shareholder value.
£13,125
Shareholders we spoke to were supportive of the principle and
simplicity of returning to our 2014 structure, reducing reliance on
£10,725
fixed pay and increasing the proportion of variable pay.
£10,317 2025 total remuneration opportunity
The Committee reflected on the appropriate maximum opportunity for
£10,575 the Group CEO and Group CFO considering (i) the maximum
opportunity in 2014; (ii) market data for our international banking peers
and the largest FTSE 30 companies; and (iii) internal pay compression
challenges with members of the Group Operating Committee.
Pre-2014 £7,350
After considering these factors, which are described further below,
2014 the Committee determined the appropriate maximum opportunity for
£6,000
Policy
2025 should be £15,150,000 for the Group CEO role and £8,837,500
2023 for the Group CFO.
£6,116
Policy
Returning to the pre-2014 structure increases the proportion of pay
Current
(2024) £6,264 subject to performance to 89%, compared to 69% under the current
policy. This provides less certainty in pay outcomes with higher pay at
Salary FPA maximum performance offset by lower pay for weaker performance.
Pension Annual Incentive The Committee felt that a higher maximum opportunity was required
Long-term Incentive to reflect the additional volatility given the lower fixed pay and reverse
the reduction in total compensation when FPAs were introduced.
We propose to reverse the changes made in 2014 to increase the
proportion of pay linked to long-term performance. This means Group CEO payout under different performance scenarios (£m)
removing FPAs in their entirety and resetting the maximum variable
pay opportunity to 900% of salary, split between 300% in annual £15.15
incentive and 600% in long-term incentive (‘LTI’). £10.6
£8.4
£6.9
At this level, the LTI enables the Committee to target an appropriate £5.1 £5.0
£3.2
maximum opportunity relative to peers with significantly less reliance £1.7
on fixed pay. Specifically, the proposed structure reduces fixed pay by
49% for the Group CEO and 51% for the Group CFO. Maximum Target Minimum Below Maximum Target Minimum Below
Minimum Minimum
The Committee considered a lower maximum LTI opportunity for the
Current Proposed
Group CFO but decided against this, reflecting on the relative
complexity of the Group CFO role at HSBC compared to other listed n Fixed pay n Variable pay
peers in the FTSE 30, practice at international banks, and internal pay ’Target’, ’Minimum’ and ’Below Minimum’ scenarios assume performance outcomes
of 50%, 25% and 0% respectively for both the annual incentive and LTI.
Group CEO maximum total compensation opportunity (£000) Group CFO maximum total compensation opportunity (£000)
International banking peer group Top 10 by market cap in FTSE 30 International banking peer group Top 10 by market cap in FTSE 30
(Stock ticker and ranking by market capitalisation)
JPM (1) AZN (1) JPM (1) HSBC (3) £8,838
MS (3) HSBC (3) £15,150 CITI (5) SHEL (2)
CITI (5)
SHEL (2) MS (3) AZN (1)
BAC (2)
GSK (10) UBS (6) GSK (10)
UBS (6)
HSBC (4) £15,150 LSEG (9) BAC (2) HSBC (3) £7,350
HSBC (4) £13,125 HSBC (3) £13,125 HSBC (4) £8,838 BP (7)
HSBC (4) £10,575 BP (7) DBK (11) HSBC (3) £6,264
BARC (9) BAT (8) HSBC (4) £7,350 RIO (5)
DBK (11)
ULVR (4) HSBC (4) £6,264 ULVR (4)
STAN (12)
RELX (6) BARC (9) LSEG (9)
LLOY (10)
DBS (7) HSBC (3) £10,575 STAN (12) RELX (6)
BNP (8) RIO (5) LLOY (10) BAT (8)
£0 £40,000 £0 £20,000 £0 £20,000 £0 £10,000
n HSBC proposed n HSBC current n HSBC pre-2014
Data source: Deloitte. 2024 total compensation is based on 2023 year-end disclosures. The market capitalisation ranking shown in brackets is based on a 3-month
average as at 31 December 2024.

[PAGE 283]

Group CEO target total compensation (£000) Group CFO target total compensation (£000)
International banking peer group Top 10 by market cap in FTSE 30 International banking peer group Top 10 by market cap in FTSE 30
(Stock ticker and ranking by market capitalisation)
MS (3) AZN (1) JPM (1) SHEL (2)
JPM (1) HSBC (3) £8,400 MS (3) HSBC (3) £4,900
CITI (5)
SHEL (2) CITI (5) AZN (1)
BAC (2)
HSBC (3) £7,500 DBK (11) HSBC (3) £4,200
UBS (6)
HSBC (4) £8,400 LSEG (9) BAC (2) HSBC (3) £4,116
DBK (11) ULVR (4) UBS (6) GSK (10)
HSBC (4) £7,500 BP (7) HSBC (4) £4,900 ULVR (4)
HSBC (4) £6,894 HSBC (3) £6,894 HSBC (4) £4,200 BP (7)
BARC (9) BAT (8) HSBC (4) £4,116 RELX (6)
STAN (12)
GSK (10) BARC (9) RIO (5)
LLOY (10)
DBS (7) RELX (6) STAN (12) LSEG (9)
BNP (8) RIO (5) LLOY (10) BAT (8)
£0 £27,000 £0 £11,000 £0 £11,000 £0 £6,000
Over several years, the Committee has seen increases to pay Evolution of Group CEO salary over time (£000)
opportunities and changes to pay structures, which have further
widened the gap between HSBC and some of our US and European
banking peers. In determining the new policy, we have not targeted
the quantum or structure of pay in US banks given the differences in
market and business models compared to HSBC. However, we
believe it is appropriate to narrow the gap to these roles as we recruit
from this talent base across various levels of the organisation and this
will help alleviate some of the challenges of pay compression.
HSBC is the third-largest company in the FTSE by market
capitalisation, a proxy for the scale and complexity of the Group.
Operating within 58 countries and territories and employing over
211,000 full-time equivalent employees means that HSBC is also one
of the most geographically diverse companies and one of the largest
employers in the FTSE 30. The Committee believes that the
maximum pay opportunities towards the upper end of the FTSE 30
are reflective of the size and scope of HSBC. These also remain
below the pay levels had the growth in median executive Director
salaries observed amongst FTSE 30 companies over the last 10 years
been applied to our 2014 maximum opportunities.
Compared to our international banking peers, the maximum pay
opportunities place HSBC second amongst our European peers, and
behind all comparable US roles. The Committee believe this is
appropriate given HSBC is one of the largest banking and financial
services organisations in the world, which is listed in the UK, whilst
recognising the different pay environment in the US.
The Committee also reflected on the challenges of pay compression
between the executive Directors and members of the Group
Operating Committee in the context of succession planning, and
considering pay outcomes and market benchmarks for each role.
From 2021 to 2023, the expected total compensation of nearly a third
of Group Executive Committee members was higher by on average
30% than the Group CFO. The proposed maximum opportunity for
the Group CFO helps to restore the pay differential expected by the
market versus other senior roles, albeit a gap still remains.
2025 fixed pay
To achieve the increased maximum pay opportunity, base salary for
Georges Elhedery will increase to £1,500,000, up 9%. Whilst this is
higher than the average 2025 fixed pay increase of 2.9% for UK
employees, overall fixed pay for Georges will reduce by 49%
following removal of his FPA.
Georges’ proposed salary remains behind the level we would expect
had average UK wider workforce salary increases of 4% been applied
since 2014, when the 2:1 cap was introduced. The average annual
HSBC Group CEO salary increase over the same period was 1%.
052,1£ 673,1£ 005,1£
n HSBC proposed n HSBC current n HSBC pre-2014
Data source: Deloitte. 2024 total compensation based on 2023 year-end disclosures. 'Target' value of total compensation based on 50% of the maximum value for
the annual incentive, or target value if disclosed; 50% of the maximum value for performance-based LTI; the maximum value of restricted shares; and one third of
face value for share options. Market capitalisation ranking shown in brackets based on 3-month average as at 31 December 2024.
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025
Actual salary If increased in line with UK wider workforce
We considered higher base salaries given the significant reduction in
fixed pay but elected to keep the base salary increase lower,
recognising wider cost of living challenges faced by colleagues and
customers. This was a view shared by shareholders and reflects our
disciplined approach to executive pay.
For Pam Kaur, base salary will increase to £875,000, up 9%. This
enables a maximum pay opportunity reflecting the scale and
complexity of the Group CFO role at HSBC and limits pay
compression with comparable roles on our Group Operating
Committee. Similar to Georges, though Pam’s salary increase is
above the average fixed pay increase for UK employees, her overall
fixed pay will reduce by 51% following removal of the FPA.
Subject to shareholder approval of the remuneration policy, salary
increases for both Georges and Pam will be effective from 1 March
2025, in line with the UK workforce.
Performance measures and targets
Our proposal represents a material change in structure and quantum,
but this will only be realised if stretching performance targets are met
and value is delivered for shareholders.
The Committee has undertaken a comprehensive review of the
performance measures used for our incentive arrangements to
ensure alignment to the Group’s priorities and balance delivery of
financial and strategic performance. Performance targets and ranges
have been set with stretch to reflect the increased pay opportunities.
This topic has been a strong focus of policy discussions with
shareholders and their views are reflected in our decisions.
For the 2025 annual incentive scorecard, we will:
– Retain our core measures of PBT, Group RoTE and costs, each
assessed excluding notable items, and introduce a measure on fee
income growth relative to balance sheet growth to incentivise
growth with less reliance on capital.
Corporate
governance

[PAGE 284]

Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report
– Reduce the weighting for PBT to 10% and remove Asia RoTE to Changes in non-executive Director fees
reduce overlap with Group RoTE and simplify the scorecard. This The Board, excluding non-executive Directors, has reviewed the fees
change retains financial measures at 60% of the scorecard, which payable to non-executive Directors in the context of changes to the
the Committee believes appropriately balances investor views organisational structure. Following this review, it was considered that
with regulatory expectations for a balanced scorecard. the fees payable for chairing or being a member of a Board
– Maintain customer Net Promoter Score as a strategic measure to Committee (excluding the Nomination & Corporate Governance
reflect our ambition to be a top-three bank for customer Committee) should be increased to recognise the responsibilities and
satisfaction and/or improve customer satisfaction rank. material additional time commitment associated with such a role.
– Include people and culture measures that support us in Giving due consideration to the highly regulated and complex industry
strengthening our inclusive culture of high-performance. in which HSBC operates, it was agreed to align the additional fee for
chairing a Board Committee at £150,000 per annum (i.e., in line with
For the 2025–2027 LTI, we will: the current fee for chairing the Group Risk Committee). The increase
in the fee for chairing a Board Committee will be phased over two
– Retain Group RoTE, relative total shareholder return (’TSR’) and
years, with an increase to £125,000 per annum for 2025, and a further
environment measures.
increase to £150,000 per annum with effect from 1 January 2026.
– Increase the weighting of RoTE to 40%, reflecting that the delivery
The Board also agreed increases to the additional fee for being a
of a strong stable return on tangible equity is a core measure of
member of a Board Committee, and for the role of designated non-
the sustainable returns expected by our investors.
executive Director for workforce engagement to £50,000 per annum.
– Increase the weighting of relative TSR to 40% as it is a key These increases reflect the additional activity being undertaken during
measure of shareholder returns, a material relative measure used this period of organisational and cultural change. No other changes
by our peers and in line with investor expectations. are proposed to non-executive Director fees for 2025.
– Reduce the weighting of the environment measure from 25% to
Performance in 2024
20% following feedback from our shareholders on the metrics and
targets used given the higher LTI opportunity, recognising that Financial performance
financed emissions targets remain difficult to include at this time. Our financial performance in 2024 demonstrates that our strategy is
This ensures a greater proportion of the scorecard is aligned to working and is delivering strong returns for our shareholders.
value creation while supporting our ESG ambitions.
We delivered a reported profit before tax of $32.3bn, up $2.0bn
We will not use financed emission targets for the 2025-2027 LTI
compared with 2023. This increase included a $1.0bn net favourable
awards given current challenges in methodology and the timeliness
impact from notable items, which in 2024 included gains and losses
and frequency of reporting, which was generally accepted by the
relating to our disposals in Canada and Argentina. Constant currency
investors we spoke to. The Committee will keep this under review for
profit before tax excluding notable items increased by $1.4bn to
future performance cycles.
$34.1bn.
Group RoTE is the only measure used in both our annual incentive
Reported revenue of $65.9bn was stable compared to 2023, despite a
and LTI scorecards, reflecting our focus on delivering sustainable
net adverse movement in gains and losses on our strategic
returns and a strong preference for the measure by most
transactions. This reflected higher customer activity in our Wealth
shareholders. This ensures we incentivise capital productivity for the
products in WPB and in Equities and Securities Financing in GBM.
current year whilst supporting our external commitment to deliver
sustainable returns and mid-teens RoTE over the medium-term. 2024 costs on a target basis grew by around 5% in line with our
targeted growth.
We will continue to utilise a risk modifier and operate a judgement-
based approach to adjustments for all risk and compliance matters, Our RoTE for 2024 was 14.6%, compared with 14.6% in 2023.
aligned to shareholder feedback and the expectations of our Excluding notable items, RoTE was 16.0%.
regulators. The Committee considers the application of the risk
modifier each year and has applied it in three instances for our The Board approved a fourth quarterly dividend of $0.36 per share,
executive Directors since its introduction in 2021. bringing the total dividend announced for 2024 to $0.87 per share.
This includes the special dividend of $0.21 per share that was paid in
When setting performance targets, we consider our internal financial June following the completion of the sale of HSBC Bank Canada.
planning and strategy process, our strategic guidance and analyst Furthermore, in respect of 2024 we announced three share buy-backs
consensus where available such that minimum, target, and maximum worth a total of $9bn, and today we have announced a further share
performance levels are set with stretch. This was a key focus of buy-back of up to $2bn.
investors in our consultation, who recognised that our recent LTI
targets have been set to deliver maximum payouts only for Strategic performance
outperformance. The Committee remains committed to ensuring We continue to make good progress in reshaping the Group. In 2024,
there is sufficient stretch in our targets in future years, which is we completed the sales of our retail banking operations in France, our
demonstrated in the maximum RoTE target for the 2025-2027 LTI and banking business in Canada, and our businesses in Argentina, Russia
illustrated below. and Armenia. We acquired SilkRoad Property Partners Group in
Singapore and Citi’s retail wealth management portfolio in mainland
LTI Group RoTE performance range versus external guidance China. We announced divestments in our private banking business in
Germany and our business in South Africa, as well as the planned sale
Mid-teens of our life insurance business in France. In October 2024, we
2025-2027 LTI announced a simplified organisational structure to accelerate delivery
14.0% 16.0% 18.0% against our strategic priorities.
2024-2026 LTI We continue to strengthen our scale positions in Hong Kong and the
14.0% 16.0% 17.0% UK and drive strong profit generation in these businesses. We remain
2023-2025 LTI 12%+ focused on our goal to become a digital-first bank and have continued
to see growth in customer adoption of our digital services across all
13.0% 14.3% 15.5%
our businesses, which is reflected in our Net Promoter Scores.
External guidance Minimum to Target Target to Maximum
Over 88% of colleagues participated in our 2024 Snapshot survey
where our employee engagement index rose a further three
percentage points to reach an all-time high of 80%, six percentage
points above the global financial services benchmark.

[PAGE 285]

Key remuneration decisions for executive Fixed pay
We are pleased to be accredited as a global living wage employer in
Directors
2025 and meet or exceed living wage benchmarks in all our markets.
Executive Director changes This gives confidence that we provide core financial security to
Sir Noel Quinn stepped down as Group CEO and as an executive colleagues through fixed pay, which is the largest part of most
Director of the Board on 2 September 2024 and was succeeded by colleagues' reward.
Georges Elhedery. Pam Kaur was appointed Group CFO from 1
January 2025. All remuneration decisions in respect of this change Fixed pay is primarily reviewed through our annual pay cycle. Effective
were made in accordance with our shareholder-approved policy. in 2025, we have awarded an overall fixed pay increase of 3.6%. The
level of increases vary by market, depending on the economic
Given his retirement from the Group on 30 April 2025, Sir Noel Quinn situation and individual roles. The highest increases were made to
will be treated as a good leaver for the purpose of unvested incentive lower paid colleagues relative to relevant market benchmarks.
awards. He remained eligible for a 2024 annual incentive but will not
receive an LTI award for the 2025–2027 performance period, nor will Variable pay
he be eligible for a 2025 annual incentive. The Committee determined total variable pay of $3,800m, broadly flat
compared with the $3,774m awarded in 2023. This was determined
Annual incentive for 2024 performance based on a review of our performance against financial and non-
Scorecards were set at the start of the year to align with our reported financial metrics. We considered the strength of our financial
financial performance, excluding the impact of strategic transactions performance in 2024 and the ratio between variable pay and pre-
and one-offs on the Group's financial performance in 2024. variable pay profit before tax, the Group’s performance against key
risk and compliance metrics, and our total compensation position
Georges Elhedery's formulaic scorecard outcome of 78.79% (2023:
compared with market and the broader economic outlook.
76.75%) results in an annual incentive outcome of £1,677,000 (2023:
£1,287,000). This was calculated by applying respective formulaic Total compensation across all our businesses increased relative to
scorecard outcomes to the pro-rated maximum opportunities for the 2023, rewarding our colleagues for their contribution to our
Group CEO and Group CFO roles, based on the period spent in each performance. Distribution of variable pay by business considered
role during 2024. relative performance against RoTE, reported profit before tax and cost
targets, and performance against risk and compliance metrics. Strong
The formulaic scorecard outcome for Sir Noel Quinn was 77.81%
differentiation has meant our highest performers received the largest
(2023: 75.93% pre risk adjustment, 70.24% post risk adjustment),
increases in variable pay compared with the previous year.
which results in an annual incentive outcome of £1,540,000 (2023:
£2,018,000), after pro-rating for his time as Group CEO during 2024. Ex-post risk adjustments were made to the variable pay of relevant
individuals for material risk events over 2024. This included
Taking into account the Group’s performance against risk metrics, and
adjustments for some individuals following the conclusion of the
inputs from the Group Risk Committee, the Committee used its
investigation into the PRA’s 29 January 2024 Notice for historic
judgement and applied no adjustment in respect of risk matters to
depositor protection failings arising in HSBC Bank plc and HSBC UK
executive Director annual incentive outcomes for 2024.
Bank plc and the Committee now considers this matter closed.
2022–2024 LTI vesting
Other remuneration matters
Georges Elhedery and Sir Noel Quinn participated in the 2022–2024
LTI that will vest in March 2025. HSBC's variable to fixed pay ratio
Following shareholder approval at the 2024 AGM, the Committee
The maximum RoTE and relative TSR targets were exceeded,
reviewed several options to set new pay ratios and concluded that a
reflecting the strong absolute and relative performance of the Group
single overall ratio of 10:1 was most appropriate, supported by
over the performance period. The capital reallocation to Asia measure
internal guidance to manage expectations on its application. The ratio
was not met and performance against the environment measures
will apply across the Group, where permitted by regulation.
exceeded the maximum target. 75% of the original award will vest on
a pro-rata basis over the next five years. The ratio will support us to materially strengthen alignment of pay and
performance in our executive Directors’ remuneration policy. The ratio
2025–2027 LTI awards has limited impact on the wider workforce and is higher than we
The Committee intends to grant both Georges Elhedery and Pam Kaur intend on using in practice. However, the new cap gives us flexibility
the maximum 2025-2027 LTI award of 600% of base salary (Georges to reward extraordinary individual performance delivered by a small
Elhedery: £9,000,000, Pam Kaur: £5,250,000), subject to shareholder number of employees in frontline roles.
approval of the LTI opportunity under the new policy.
We will continue to keep our pay principles and approach under
The value realised from the award is subject to performance over the review, monitoring market developments and competitiveness, to
next three years and the award will vest over a further five years with increase the proportion of pay for performance over time.
a one-year retention period on vesting shares.
PRA/FCA consultation on UK remuneration rules
For further details, see ‘Long-term incentive (’LTI’) awards‘ on page 298. The Committee welcomes the recent consultation announced by the
PRA and FCA to review the UK remuneration rules to improve overall
Rewarding our colleagues
competitiveness of UK capital markets.
We are taking actions that improve our ability to attract, retain and
We have introduced a degree of flexibility into our policy to ensure it
energise colleagues to deliver high performance and growth.
remains competitive against peers once the final rules are known.
In 2024, we changed our performance approach by simplifying ratings Any changes made would always be in line with the key principles
and focusing on better performance routines. In our Snapshot survey, used by the Committee when setting the policy. We would engage
87% of colleagues reported a clear understanding of what is expected with major shareholders ahead of making any material changes, and
conversations with their manager. We also introduced a new target Accounts.
variable pay plan, which covers over 150,000 colleagues in 46
We remain supportive of the use of deferral mechanisms and will
markets to increase transparency and differentiation of variable pay.
continue to deliver a substantial portion of variable pay in shares to
The Committee is encouraged by increasing pay sentiment year-on- ensure alignment between shareholder interests, good risk
year in most areas because of actions taken through 2023, which is management and individual reward. Our policy commits to a weighted
expected to improve further following changes introduced in 2024. average time horizon of at least five years for the deferral period of
LTI awards, in line with UK Corporate Governance requirements.
For further details, see ‘Our approach to workforce reward‘ on page
301.
Corporate
governance

[PAGE 286]

Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report
Plan limits under Share Plan 2011 Conclusion
The rules of the HSBC Share Plan 2011 currently include an annual
On behalf of the Committee, I would like to thank our shareholders
individual limit on awards of 600% of salary, based on the market
for the time taken to engage with us and their valuable feedback as
value of shares.
we developed our new policy. We are committed to regular
LTI awards are not eligible to receive dividend equivalents to comply engagement and I look forward to further dialogue in the year ahead.
with regulatory requirements. Consistent with our disclosed practice
As Chair of the Committee, I hope you will support the 2024
since 2017 when the regulatory change came into force, the number
Directors’ remuneration report, our new Directors’ remuneration
of shares awarded is calculated using a share price discounted for the
policy and the amendment to plan limits under Share Plan 2011 at this
expected dividend yield over the vesting period. The market value of
year's AGM.
the proposed LTI award would therefore exceed 600% of base salary.
Amending this limit to reflect the fair value of shares (defined in Dame Carolyn Fairbairn
accordance with relevant accounting standards) will enable the Chair
Committee to grant up to the maximum award under the new policy. Group Remuneration Committee
Shareholder support for this change will be sought at the 2025 AGM. 19 February 2025
2024 executive remuneration at a glance
This section sets out an overview of our performance and 2024 remuneration outcomes for executive Directors.
Our performance
Reported profit before tax Operating expenses Return on average tangible HK customer net promoter score
$32.3bn $33.0bn equity in WPB and CMB relative to peers
14.6% 1st
(2023: $30.3bn) (2023: $32.1bn)
Target basis operating (2023: 14.6%) (2023: WPB: 3rd; CMB: 1st)
expenses up 5% to $32.6bn Return on average tangible equity
excluding notable items of 16.0%
(2023: 16.2%)
Employee engagement Inclusion index Percentage of women in senior Percentage of colleagues of Asian
index 78% leadership roles heritage in senior leadership roles
80% 34.6% 39.3%
(2023: 78%)
(2023: 77%) (2023: 34.1%) (2023: 37.8%)
Remuneration outcomes for executive Directors
pages 296 to 298.
Sir Noel Quinn Georges Elhedery
Annual incentive outcome (£000)
Maximum opportunity £1,980 Maximum opportunity £2,134
2024 annual incentive £1,540 77.81% 2024 annual incentive1 £1,677 78.79%
1 Calculated based on Group CFO and Group CEO scorecard outcomes
applied to the respective salary for each role.
Long-term incentive (LTI) outcome (£000)
Maximum opportunity £4,131 Maximum opportunity2 £941
2022–2024 LTI £3,968 £1,330 £5,298 2022–2024 LTI £904 £303 £1,207
Vesting long-term incentive Share price appreciation Vesting long-term incentive Share price appreciation
on long-term incentive on long-term incentive
2 Received in prior role as Co-CEO, GBM.
Single total figure of remuneration (£000)
2024 £9,164 2024 £5,364
2023 £10,641 2023 £3,292
Base salary and fixed pay allowance Pension and benefits Base salary and fixed pay allowance Pension and benefits
Annual incentive Long-term incentive Annual incentive Long-term incentive
Notional returns on deferred cash Notional returns on deferred cash
awarded in respect of prior role awarded in respect of prior role

[PAGE 287]

Directors’ remuneration policy
This section sets outs the Directors’ remuneration policy proposed for Setting the policy
shareholders' approval at the AGM on 2 May 2025.
The Committee reviewed the Director’s remuneration policy in the
The Committee is responsible for reviewing and recommending to context of significant regulatory change following removal of the 2:1
the Board the Directors’ remuneration policy for shareholder approval. variable to fixed pay ratio. Input was received from the Group
Chairman and management while ensuring that conflicts of interest
The policy is intended to apply for three years to the end of the AGM
were suitably mitigated. Input was provided by the Committee’s
in 2028, although we may seek shareholders’ approval for a new
appointed independent advisers throughout the process.
policy during the period depending on regulatory developments,
changes to our strategy or competitive pressures. Key changes to the policy as a result of this review include:
Remuneration policy – key principles
– removal of Fixed Pay Allowances.
The Committee determined the policy using the following key – an increase in the maximum opportunity of the annual and long-
principles: term incentives.
– The rationale and operation of the policy should be easy to – an increase in shareholding guidelines and the introduction of a
understand and transparent. post-cessation shareholding guideline.
– There should be a strong alignment between reward and the We extensively engaged with major shareholders, representing 65%
interests of our stakeholders, including shareholders, customers of those who voted at the 2024 AGM, and proxy advisory bodies. The
and employees. Committee carefully considered all feedback received, which has
directly influenced the final proposal.
– The policy should maintain a focus on long-term performance.
– Total remuneration should be competitive to ensure we can retain Full detail on the context for the review, the Committee's key
and attract talent to deliver our strategic priorities. considerations, including how the Committee has responded to
shareholder feedback, is provided in the Chair's letter on pages 279 to
– The structure should meet the expectations of investors and our
284.
regulators.
Remuneration policy at a glance
This section sets out the key changes in our Directors’ remuneration policy and our proposed implementation for 2025.
Policy structure
Total remuneration mix Maximum total remuneration opportunity (£000)
CEO CEO
Current1 13% 16% 28% 42% Current £10,575
CFO CEO
Current1 13% 17% 28% 41% Proposed £15,150
CEO/CFO CFO
Proposed1 10% 30% 59% Current £6,264
CFO
Base salary Fixed Pay Allowance Proposed £8,838
Pension Annual incentive
Long-term incentive Fixed Variable
1 Pension accounts for 1% of the total remuneration mix.
Fixed pay - 2025 implementation (£000)
Georges Elhedery Pam Kaur
Current £3,214 Current £1,968
Proposed £1,650 Proposed £963
Salary FPA Pension Salary FPA Pension
Variable pay
Annual incentive opportunity Long-term incentive opportunity Shareholding requirement
Group CEO Group CFO
Current 215% Current 320% Current 400% Current 300%
Proposed 300% Proposed 600% Proposed 600% Proposed 600%
Corporate
governance

[PAGE 288]

Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report
Remuneration policy – executive Directors
Fixed pay
Elements Details
Base salary To attract, retain and develop key talent by being market competitive and rewarding ongoing contribution to role.
Operation – The base salary for an executive Director is designed to reflect the individual’s role, experience and responsibility.
– Base salaries are normally reviewed on an annual basis against relevant comparator groups and may be reviewed more frequently
at the discretion of the Committee.
Maximum opportunity – No maximum opportunity.
– Increases may be made at the Committee’s discretion, taking into consideration factors such as increases to scope and
responsibilities of the role, development of the individual within the role, salary increases for the wider workforce and
competitiveness against market.
Cash in lieu of pension To help executive Directors build retirement savings.
Operation – Directors receive a cash allowance in lieu of a pension entitlement.
Maximum opportunity – The maximum opportunity will be aligned with the maximum contribution rate that HSBC could make for the majority of employees
in the relevant jurisdiction. This is currently set at 10% of base salary in line with the maximum contribution rate, as a percentage of
salary, that HSBC could make for a majority of employees who are defined contribution members of the HSBC Bank (UK) pension
scheme in the UK.
Benefits and all employee share plans
Elements Details
Benefits To provide support for physical, mental and financial health in accordance with local market practice.
Operation Benefits take account of local market practice and include, but are not restricted to:
– taxable benefits (gross value before payment of tax) including provision of medical insurance, accommodation, car, club
membership, independent legal advice in relation to a matter arising out of the performance of employment duties for HSBC, tax
return assistance or preparation, and travel assistance (including any associated tax due, where applicable); and
– non-taxable benefits including the provision of a health assessment, life assurance and other insurance coverage.
Additional benefits may also be provided when an executive is relocated or spends a substantial proportion of their time in more than
one jurisdiction for business needs, or in such other circumstances as the Committee may determine in its discretion. Such benefits
could include, but are not restricted to, airfare, accommodation, shipment, storage, utilities, and any tax and social security that may
be due in respect of such benefits.
Maximum opportunity – No maximum opportunity.
– The maximum value is determined by the nature of the benefit provided. The benefit amount will be disclosed in the single total
figure of remuneration table for the relevant year.
All employee share plans To promote share ownership by all employees.
Operation – Executive Directors are entitled to participate in all employee share plans, such as HSBC Sharesave, on the same basis as all other
employees in the relevant jurisdiction.
– Under Sharesave, executive Directors can make monthly savings over a period of three or five years towards the grant of an option
over HSBC shares. The option price can be at a discount, currently up to 20%, on the share price at the time the option is granted.
Maximum opportunity – The maximum number of options is determined by the maximum savings limit set by HM Revenue and Customs. This is currently
£500 per month.
– Executive Directors may also receive additional share options at no extra cost via the Sharesave bonus mechanism, with applicable
rates set by HM Revenue and Customs.

[PAGE 289]

Variable pay
Adhering to HSBC’s values-aligned behaviours and conduct standards is a prerequisite to be considered for variable pay. Executive Directors
receive an overall performance assessment that considers performance against goals and role expectations, and demonstration of our values-
aligned behaviours. This is considered by the Committee when applying discretion to the formulaic scorecard outcomes.
Elements Details
Annual incentive To drive and reward performance against annual financial and non-financial objectives that are consistent with the strategy and align
to shareholder interests.
Operation Annual incentive awards are discretionary and can be delivered in any combination of cash and shares under the HSBC Share Plan
2011 (‘HSBC Share Plan’). Shares will not normally represent less than 50% of any award and are normally immediately vested.
On vesting, shares equivalent to the net number of shares that vested (after those sold to cover any income tax and social security
payable) must be held for a retention period up to one year, or such other period as may be expected by regulators.
The awards will be subject to clawback (i.e. repayment or recoupment of paid/vested awards) on or after vesting for a period of seven
years from the date of award, or such other period as required by regulators. This may be extended to 10 years, or such other period
as required by regulators in the event of an ongoing internal/regulatory investigation at the end of the seven-year period. Details of the
clawback provision are set out in the bottom section of this table.
Any deferred shares may be entitled to dividend equivalents during the vesting period, which will be paid on vesting. Where awards
do not receive dividend equivalents during the vesting period (to meet regulatory requirements), the number of shares to be awarded
will be determined using a fair value share price (defined in accordance with relevant accounting standards) discounted for the
expected dividend yield.
Any deferred cash award may be entitled to notional returns during the deferral period, or any appropriate adjustment to reflect such
notional returns, as determined by the Committee.
The Committee retains discretion to:
– apply a longer retention period;
– increase the proportion of the award to be delivered in shares; or
– defer the vesting of a portion of the awards, subject to such conditions that the Committee may determine at its discretion (which
may include continued employment). The deferred awards will be subject to malus (i.e. reduction and/or cancellation of unvested
awards) provisions during any applicable deferral period.
The Committee also retains discretion to amend the structure and terms of awards to reflect changes in regulatory requirements
whilst ensuring that any changes will align with the key principles of the Directors' remuneration policy.
The Committee may adjust and amend awards in accordance with the relevant plan rules.
Maximum opportunity The maximum opportunity for the annual incentive award in respect of a financial year is up to 300% of base salary.
Performance measures Performance is normally measured against an annual scorecard, based on targets set for financial and non-financial measures,
determined at the beginning of the financial year. The scorecards may vary by individual.
Measures with financial targets will generally have a weighting of 60% for both the Group CEO and the Group CFO. The Committee
will review the scorecard annually and may vary the measures, weighting and targets each year.
The overall payout of the annual incentive could be between 0% (for below minimum performance) and 100% of the maximum
opportunity.
Minimum and maximum performance levels for each measure are defined in the scorecard. 25% of the award opportunity will pay
out for achieving minimum performance and 100% of the award will pay out for achieving maximum performance. Details on payout
between these levels will be disclosed in the respective Directors' Remuneration Report.
The Committee exercises its judgement to determine performance achieved and awards at the end of the performance period, which
in normal circumstances will be one financial year, to ensure that the outcome is fair in the context of overall Group and individual
performance. The Committee can adjust the payout based on the outcome of the performance measures, if it considers that the
payout determined does not appropriately reflect the overall position and performance of the Group for the relevant performance
period.
The scorecard outcome may also be subject to a risk and compliance modifier and/or a capital underpin under which the Committee
will have the discretion to adjust down the overall scorecard outcome, taking into account performance against those factors.
The Committee has the discretion to:
– change the overall weighting of the financial and non-financial measures, whilst ensuring the overall balance remains appropriate;
– vary the measures and their respective weightings within each category. The specific performance measures will be disclosed in
– make adjustments to performance targets, measures, weightings and/or outcomes in exceptional circumstances. This may be to
reflect significant one-off items that occur during the measurement period and/or where the Committee determines that original
measures, targets or conditions are no longer appropriate or that amendment is required so that the measures, targets or
remuneration' for the relevant year, subject to commercial confidentiality.
Malus and clawback The Committee has the discretion to operate malus and clawback provisions.
(applicable to both annual Malus can be applied to unvested awards in circumstances including:
incentive and LTI)
– detrimental conduct, including conduct that brings the business into disrepute;
– past performance being materially worse than originally reported;
– restatement, correction or amendment of any financial statements; and
– improper or inadequate risk management.
Clawback may be applied in circumstances including:
– participation in, or responsibility for, conduct that results in significant losses;
– failing to meet appropriate standards and propriety;
– reasonable evidence of misconduct or material error that would justify, or would have justified, summary termination of a contract
of employment;
– a material failure of risk management suffered by HSBC or a business unit in the context of Group risk management standards,
policies and procedures; and
– any other circumstances required by local regulatory obligations to which any member of the HSBC Group or its subsidiary is
subject.
Corporate
governance

[PAGE 290]

Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report
Elements Details
Long-term incentives To incentivise sustainable long-term performance and alignment with shareholder interests.
(‘LTI’)
Operation LTI awards are discretionary and are granted if the Committee considers that there has been satisfactory performance over the prior
year. The awards are granted as rights to receive shares under the HSBC Share Plan, normally subject to a forward-looking three-year
performance period from the start of the financial year in which the awards are granted.
At the end of the performance period, the performance outcome will be used to assess the percentage of the awards that will vest.
These shares will then normally vest in five equal instalments, with the first vesting on or around the third anniversary of the grant
date and the last instalment vesting on or around the seventh anniversary of the grant date, in accordance with current UK
remuneration rules.
On each vesting, shares equivalent to the net number of shares that vested (after those sold to cover any income tax and social
security payable) must be held for a retention period up to one year (or such other period as may be permitted by regulators).
Awards are subject to malus provisions prior to vesting. The awards will also be subject to clawback on or after vesting for a period of
seven years from the date of award, or such other period as required by regulators. This may be extended to 10 years, or such other
period as required by regulators, in the event of an ongoing internal/regulatory investigation at the end of the seven-year period.
Details of the malus and clawback provisions are set out in the previous section on annual incentive awards.
Awards may be entitled to dividend equivalents during the vesting period, which will be paid on vesting. Where awards do not receive
dividend equivalents during the vesting period (to meet regulatory requirements), the number of shares to be awarded will be
determined using a fair value share price discounted for the expected dividend yield.
The Committee also retains discretion to amend the structure and terms of awards to reflect changes in regulatory requirements
whilst ensuring that any changes will align with the key principles of the Directors' remuneration policy. In any event, we expect the
weighted average time horizon of the deferral period to be at least five years.
The Committee may adjust or amend awards in accordance with the rules of the HSBC Share Plan.
Maximum opportunity The maximum opportunity for the LTI award in respect of a financial year is up to 600% of base salary.
Performance measures The Committee will take into consideration prior performance when assessing the value of the LTI grant. Forward-looking
performance is measured against a long-term scorecard, determined at the start of the financial year in which awards are granted.
Financial measures will generally have a weighting of 60% or more.
For each measure, the Committee will determine the extent of achievement based on actual performance against the target set and
other relevant factors that the Committee considers appropriate to take account of in order to better reflect the Group's underlying
performance. The overall payout level could be between 0% (for below minimum performance) and 100% of the maximum.
Minimum, target and maximum performance levels for each measure are defined in the scorecard. 25% of the award opportunity will
vest for achieving minimum performance, 50% of the award will vest for achieving target performance and 100% of the award will
vest for achieving maximum performance. Where performance achieved is between the minimum, target and maximum level of
performance set in the scorecard, the number of awards that will vest will be determined on a straight-line basis.
The Committee can adjust the LTI payout based on the outcome of the performance measures, if it considers that the payout
determined does not appropriately reflect the overall position and performance of the Group during the performance period.
The scorecard outcome may also be subject to a risk and compliance modifier and/or a capital underpin under which the Committee
will have the discretion to adjust down the overall scorecard outcome, taking into account performance against those factors.
Performance targets will normally be set annually for each three-year cycle. The Committee has the discretion to:
– change the overall weighting of the financial and non-financial measures, whilst ensuring the overall balance remains appropriate;
– vary the measures and their respective weightings within each category. The specific performance measures will be disclosed in
– vary the risk and compliance and/or any underpin measures; and
– make adjustments to performance targets, measures, weightings and/or outcomes in exceptional circumstances. This may be to
reflect significant one-off items that occur during the measurement period and/or where the Committee determines that original
measures, targets or conditions are no longer appropriate or that an amendment is required so that the measures, targets or
conditions achieve their original purpose. Revised targets/measures will be, in the opinion of the Committee, no less difficult to
satisfy had they been set at the same time as the original targets. Full and clear disclosure of any such adjustments will be made
Other
Elements Details
Shareholding guidelines To ensure appropriate alignment with the interest of our shareholders.
Operation Executive Directors are expected to satisfy the following shareholding requirement as a percentage of base salary within five years
from the date of their appointment:
– Group CEO: 600%
– Group CFO: 600%
On cessation of employment, executive Directors will normally be required to maintain the minimum shareholding requirement for
two years (or, if their actual shareholding is lower at the time of cessation, the actual shareholding upon departure). For this purpose,
unvested shares which are not subject to forward-looking performance conditions (on a net of tax basis) will count towards the
shareholding requirement. HSBC operates an anti-hedging policy under which individuals are not permitted to enter into any personal
hedging strategies in relation to HSBC shares subject to a vesting and/or retention period.
Maximum opportunity Not applicable.

[PAGE 291]

Committee discretion The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration
payments and payments for loss of office, notwithstanding that they
The Committee welcomes the recent consultation announced by the
are not in line with the policy set out above, where the terms of the
PRA and FCA to review the UK remuneration rules to improve the
payment were agreed:
overall competitiveness of UK capital markets. The proposals cover a
wide range of areas, including the application of deferral and retention – before the policy above or any previous policy came into effect;
periods, which are directly applicable to our policy design.
– at a time where a previous policy, approved by shareholders, was
Aligned to the key principles used by the Committee to set the policy, in place provided the payment is in line with the terms of that
the Committee feel it is important that it retains discretion to amend policy; or
the structure and terms of awards in the event of regulatory change
– at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the
to ensure the policy continues to meet the expectations of our
Group and the payment was not in consideration for the individual
regulators and it remains competitive versus peers.
becoming a Director of the Group.
Where discretion is exercised by the Committee, changes will always
For these purposes, payments include the Committee satisfying
be made in line with the key principles used to determine the policy.
awards of variable remuneration. This means making payments in line
We will engage with major shareholders ahead of making any material
with the terms that were agreed at the time the award was granted.
change, and clearly disclose any changes and their rationale in our
One area discussed with shareholders as part of our engagement was The performance measures selected for the annual incentive and LTI
how the Committee would exercise their discretion on the length and awards will be set on an annual basis by the Committee, taking into
amount of deferral in the event of regulatory change. account the Group’s strategic priorities and any feedback received
from our shareholders. The following table sets out the performance
The Committee believe that deferral mechanisms and the
measures we currently consider for inclusion in our scorecards. The
requirements to deliver a substantial portion of variable remuneration
Committee retains the discretion to choose other measures that are
in shares are critical policy design elements to ensure ongoing
appropriate for achieving our strategic priorities and meeting any
alignment between reward and the interests of our shareholders.
regulatory expectations, taking into account the views of our
We have therefore included in the policy a commitment to ensure shareholders.
that the weighted average time horizon of the deferral period for LTI
Our objective when setting targets is to balance stretch and
awards is at least five years, in line with UK Corporate Governance
achievability so they act as an effective incentive whilst recognising
requirements.
outperformance.
In addition to the specific areas of discretion expressly set out in the
Financial targets are set on a reported basis excluding notable items.
policy table, the incentive plans include a number of operational areas
This means items occurring outside the normal course of business
of discretion available to the Committee, including:
and which are generally not expected to repeat, are excluded, and
– the right to grant awards in the form of conditional share awards or assessed performance is not impacted by one-offs. Performance
options (including nil-cost options); targets are set taking into account a number of factors, including the
targets set in our financial resource plan, our strategic priorities,
– the right to amend a performance condition in accordance with its
shareholder expectations, the economic environment and risk
terms, or if anything happens that causes the Committee to
appetite. Non-financial targets are set based on progress versus prior
consider it appropriate to do so;
year actuals, external commitments and market benchmarks.
– the right to settle the award in cash, based on the relevant share
Minimum targets are set considering prior year(s) performance and
price, or shares as appropriate; and
downside risks to the financial resource plan. Maximum targets
– the right to adjust the award on a variation of share capital or other include a stretch above plan, considering upside opportunities.
corporate event that affects the current or future value of the
award, or alternatively, the right to vest the award early in such The overall range is reviewed, taking into account external
circumstances. commitments and analyst consensus, where available. As a result,
the final target ranges are not formulaically driven or always
symmetrically spread around the plan.
Performance measures
Measures and Example measures for
modifier/underpin Example measures for annual incentive scorecard LTI scorecard Rationale
Financial measures – Profit before tax – RoTE Measures are selected to
– RoTE – Total shareholder return incentivise the achievement
of our financial targets as set
– Revenue growth – Underpin to maintain a
out in our strategic priorities
– Volume growth minimum CET1 ratio and financial resource plan.
– Costs
Strategic measures – Customer satisfaction – Reduce carbon Measures are selected to
– Employee engagement emissions support the delivery of our
– Succession planning and inclusion – Sustainable finance strategic priorities.
– Carbon reduction and sustainable finance
Risk and compliance – Sustained delivery of global conduct outcomes – Modifier linked to risk Measures are chosen to
measures, modifier – Effective financial crime risk management and compliance ensure a high level of
and/or underpin performance accountability of risk and
– Effective management of material operational risks
conduct, to promote an
– Risk metrics to identify when business activities are outside of tolerance effective risk management
level for a significant period of time environment and to embed a
– Failures in risk management that have resulted in significant customer robust governance system.
detriment, reputational damage and/or regulatory censure
– CET1 level
Corporate
governance

[PAGE 292]

Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report
Approach to recruitment remuneration – executive Directors
On the recruitment or appointment of a new executive Director, the Outlined in the following table are all components that would be
Committee would adhere to the following principles: considered for inclusion in the remuneration package of a new
executive Director appointment and, for each, the approach that
– Remuneration packages should be in line with the approved policy
would be adopted.
for executive Directors.
In the case of an internal appointment, any existing commitments will
– Remuneration packages must meet any applicable local regulatory
be honoured and any variable element awarded in respect of the prior
requirements.
role will be allowed to be paid out according to its existing terms.
– Where necessary, compensation may be provided in respect of
forfeiture of remuneration awards from an existing employer (for
example, buy-out awards).
Components of remuneration package of a new executive Director
Component of remuneration Approach taken
Fixed pay The base salary will reflect the individual’s role, experience and responsibility, and will be set in the context of market
practice.
The maximum cash in lieu of pension allowance will be no more than the maximum contribution, as a percentage of salary,
that can be made for the majority of employees in the relevant jurisdiction.
Benefits Benefits to be provided will be dependent on circumstances while in line with Group policy and the remuneration policy
table, including the global mobility policy (where applicable) and local regulations.
Variable pay awards New appointments will be eligible to be considered for variable pay awards consisting of an annual incentive and/or LTI
award (or any other element which the Committee considers appropriate given the particular circumstances but not
exceeding the maximum level of variable remuneration set out below).
For the year in which the individual commences providing services as an executive Director, the Committee retains the
discretion to determine the proportion of variable pay to be deferred, the deferral and retention period, whether any
performance and/or continued employment conditions should be applied, and the period over which such performance
should be assessed. In exercising this discretion, the Committee will take into account the circumstances in which the
individual is appointed (for example, if it is promotion of an internal candidate or an external appointment), expectations of
shareholders and any regulatory requirements.
Total variable pay awarded for the year in which the individual is newly appointed as an executive Director will be limited to
900% of base salary. This limit excludes buy-out awards and is in line with the aggregate maximum variable pay opportunity
set out in the remuneration policy table.
Guaranteed bonuses are only permitted by exception and in very rare and limited circumstances (for example, where the
individual loses a variable pay opportunity with the previous employer as a result of joining HSBC and such an award is
considered essential to attract and hire the candidate). If such an award is provided, then in line with the PRA remuneration
rules, it will be limited to the first year of service, subject to the Group deferral policy and performance requirements.
Buy-out awards The Committee may make an award to buy out remuneration terms forfeited on resignation from the previous employer.
The Group buy-out policy is in line with the PRA remuneration rules, which state that both the terms and amount of any
replacement awards will not be more generous than the award forfeited on departure from the former employer.
In considering buy-out levels and conditions, the Committee will take into account the type of award, performance measures
and likelihood of performance conditions being met in setting the quantum of the buy-out. Buy-out awards will match the
terms of forfeited awards with the previous employer as closely as possible, subject to proof of forfeiture and other relevant
documentation. Where the vesting time is fewer than 90 days, cash or deferred cash may be awarded for administrative
purposes.
Where appropriate, the Committee retains the discretion to utilise the provisions provided in the UK Financial Conduct
Authority's Listing Rules for the purpose of making buy-out awards.

[PAGE 293]

Policy on payments for loss of office – executive Directors
The following table sets out the basis on which payments for loss of office may be made. Other than as set out in the table, there are no further
obligations that could give rise to remuneration payments or payments for loss of office:
Payments for loss of office
Component of remuneration Approach taken
Fixed pay and benefits Executive Directors may be entitled to payments in lieu of:
– notice, which may consist of base salary, cash in lieu of pension allowance, and other contractual benefits, or an amount in
lieu of; and/or
– accrued but untaken holiday entitlement.
Payments may be made in instalments or a lump sum, and may be subject to mitigation, and subject to applicable tax and
social security deductions.
Annual incentive and LTI In exceptional circumstances, as determined by the Committee, an executive Director may be eligible for the grant of annual
incentives and/or LTIs under the HSBC Share Plan, taking into account the time worked in the performance year and based
on the individual’s contribution.
Unvested awards All unvested awards will be forfeited when an executive Director ceases employment voluntarily and is not deemed a good
leaver. An executive Director may be considered a good leaver, under the HSBC Share Plan, if their employment ceases in
specified circumstances, which include:
– ill health, injury or disability, as established to the satisfaction of the Committee;
– retirement with the agreement and approval of the Committee;
– the employee’s employer ceasing to be a member of the Group;
– redundancy with the agreement and approval of the Committee; or
– any other reason at the discretion of the Committee.
If an executive Director is considered a good leaver, unvested awards will normally continue to vest in line with the applicable
vesting dates, subject to performance conditions, the HSBC share plan rules, and malus and clawback provisions. Unless the
Committee determined otherwise, awards made subject to forward-looking performance conditions, including LTI awards,
will normally be subject to pro-rating for time in employment during the performance period.
In the event of death, unvested awards will vest and be released to the executive Director’s estate as soon as practicable.
In respect of outstanding unvested awards, the Committee may determine that good leaver status is contingent upon the
Committee being satisfied that the executive Director has no current or future intention at the date of leaving HSBC of being
employed by any competitor financial services firm. The Committee determines the list of competitor firms from time to
time, and the length of time for which this restriction applies. If the Committee becomes aware of any evidence to the
contrary before vesting, the award will lapse.
Post-departure benefits Executive Directors can be provided certain benefits for up to a maximum of seven years from date of departure for those
who depart under good leaver provisions under the HSBC Share Plan, in accordance with the terms of the policy. Benefits
may include, but are not limited to, medical coverage, tax return preparation assistance and legal expenses.
Other Where an executive Director has been relocated as part of their employment, the Committee retains the discretion to pay the
repatriation costs. This may include, but is not restricted to, airfare, accommodation, shipment, storage, utilities, and any tax
and social security that may be due in respect of such benefits.
Except in the case of gross misconduct or resignation, an executive Director may also receive retirement gifts.
Legal claims The Committee retains the discretion to make payments (including professional and outplacement fees) in connection with
an executive Director’s cessation of office or employment. This may include payments that are made in good faith in
discharge of an existing legal obligation (or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation) or by way of settlement of
any claim arising in connection with the cessation of that executive Director’s office or employment.
Change of control In the event of a change of control, outstanding awards will be treated in line with the provisions set out in the respective
plan rules.
Other directorships Service contracts
Executive Directors may accept appointments as non-executive The service contracts of executive Directors do not have a fixed term.
Directors of companies that are not part of HSBC if so authorised by The notice periods of executive Directors are set at the discretion of
either the Board or the Nomination & Corporate Governance the Committee, taking into account market practice and governance
Committee. considerations.
When considering a request to accept a non-executive Director Service agreements for each executive Director are available for
appointment, the Board or the Nomination & Corporate Governance inspection at HSBC Holdings’ registered office. Consistent with the
Committee will take into account, among other things, the expected best interests of the Group, the Committee will seek to minimise
time commitment associated with the proposed appointment. termination payments. Executive Directors may be eligible for a
payment in relation to statutory rights.
The time commitment for external appointments is also routinely
reviewed to ensure that it will not compromise the executive Notice period
Director’s commitment to HSBC. Contract date (rolling) (Director and HSBC)
Georges Elhedery 01 January 2023 12 months
Pam Kaur 01 January 2025 12 months
Corporate
governance

[PAGE 294]

Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report
Remuneration scenarios
The following charts show how the total value of remuneration and its The charts set out:
composition would vary under different performance scenarios for – the minimum level of remuneration receivable under the policy for
executive Directors under the proposed policy, which is effective each performance year;
from the date of the 2025 AGM, subject to shareholders’ approval.
– the remuneration level for achieving target level of performance
The charts have been prepared using 2025 salaries and, therefore, the (which assumes 50% of maximum variable pay opportunity is
cash in lieu of pension, annual incentive and LTI opportunities have realised);
been computed as percentages of 2025 salaries. Benefits is
– the maximum level of remuneration (which assumes 100% of the
represented by the value of regular benefits in the 2024 single figure
variable pay opportunity is realised); and
of total remuneration. For Georges Elhedery, this is the annualised
value of benefits for Sir Noel Quinn, and for Pam Kaur this is the value – the maximum level of remuneration assuming a 50% increase in
of benefits for Georges Elhedery. share price for LTI awards.
Georges Elhedery (£000)
Proposed policy
minimum1 90% £1,838
Proposed policy
target 19% 2% 26% 53% £8,588
Proposed policy
maximum 11% 1% 29% 59% £15,338
Proposed policy
maximum with 50% 8% 1% 23% 68% £19,838
share price increase
Pam Kaur (£000)
Proposed policy
minimum1 91% £1,060
Proposed policy
target 19% 2%26% 53% £4,997
Proposed policy
maximum 11% 1% 29% 59% £8,935
Proposed policy
maximum with 50% 8% 1% 23% 68% £11,560
share price increase
Fixed pay (salary and cash in lieu of pension) Benefits Annual incentive LTI
1 Under the proposed policy minimum, benefits account for 10% of the total remuneration receivable for Georges Elhedery, and 9% of the total remuneration
receivable for Pam Kaur.

[PAGE 295]

Remuneration policy – non-executive Directors
The Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee has considered the time commitments required for all non-executive Directors as the
Board supports HSBC through its ambitious agenda of governance reform, growth and organisational development in an environment of
increasing regulatory, political and organisational complexity. Further information on the time commitment non-executive Directors are expected
to fulfil is set out on page 322.
The following table sets out the framework that will be used to determine the fees for non-executive Directors during the term of this policy.
Elements and link to
strategy Operation Maximum opportunity
Fees The policy for non-executive Directors is to pay: – The Board will normally review the amount
To reflect the time – base fees; and of each component of fees periodically to
commitment and assess whether, individually and in
– further fees for additional Board duties, including but not limited to chairing a
responsibilities of a non- aggregate, they remain competitive and
committee, membership of a committee, or acting as the Senior Independent
executive Director of HSBC appropriate in light of changes in roles,
Director and/or Deputy Chairperson.
Holdings. responsibilities and/or time commitment of
Fees are paid in cash. The Board retains the discretion to pay in shares rather than the non-executive Directors, and to ensure
cash where appropriate. that individuals of the appropriate calibre are
The non-executive Group Chairperson will be paid a fixed annual fee for all Board retained or appointed.
responsibilities based on their experience and the time commitments expected – There is no prescribed maximum annual
for the role, together with such other benefits as the Committee may in its increase. The Committee is guided by the
absolute discretion determine. general increase for the employee
A newly appointed non-executive Director would be paid in line with the policy on population but on occasions may need to
a time-apportioned basis in the first year as necessary. No sign-on payments are recognise other factors including, but not
offered to non-executive Directors. limited to, change in responsibility and/or
variance to market levels of remuneration.
The Board (excluding the non-executive Directors) has discretion to approve
– Travel allowances are set at an appropriate
changes to the fees. The Board may also introduce any new component of fees
level, taking into account the time
for non-executive Directors, subject to the principles, parameters and other
requirement for non-executive Directors to
requirements set out in this remuneration policy.
travel to overseas meetings.
Certain non-executive Directors may be entitled to receive fees for their services
as directors of subsidiary companies of HSBC Holdings. Such additional
remuneration is determined by the Board of Directors of each relevant subsidiary
within a framework set by the Committee.
Expenses/benefits Any taxable or other expenses incurred in performing their role are reimbursed, as Not applicable
well as any related tax cost on such reimbursement.
Non-executive Directors may on occasion receive reimbursement for costs
incurred in relation to the provision of professional advice. These payments, if
made, are taxable benefits to the non-executive Directors and the tax arising is
paid by the Group on the Directors’ behalf.
Shareholding guidelines Non-executive Directors, individually or with their connected persons, are Not applicable
To ensure appropriate expected to satisfy a shareholding guideline of 15,000 shares within five years
alignment with the interests from their appointment.
of our shareholders. The Committee reviews compliance with the guidelines annually. The Committee
has full discretion in determining any consequences in cases of non-compliance.
Service contracts Policy on payments for loss of office –
Non-executive Directors are appointed for fixed terms not exceeding non-executive Directors
three years, which may be renewed subject to their re-election by
shareholders at AGMs. Non-executive Directors do not have service There are no obligations in the non-executive Directors’ letters of
contracts, but are bound by letters of appointment issued for and on appointment that could give rise to remuneration payments or
behalf of HSBC Holdings, which are available for inspection at HSBC payments for loss of office.
Holdings’ registered office.
Non-executive Directors are entitled to notice under their letter of
appointment. Non-executive Directors’ current terms of appointment
will expire as follows:
2025 AGM 2026 AGM 2027 AGM
José Antonio Meade Kalpana Morparia James Forese
Kuribreña Geraldine Buckingham Steven Guggenheimer
Rachel Duan Eileen Murray
Dame Carolyn Ann Godbehere
Fairbairn Brendan Nelson
Swee Lian Teo
Corporate
governance

[PAGE 296]

Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report
Policy alignment with UK Corporate Governance Code
The table below details how the Group Remuneration Committee addresses the principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code with
respect to the Directors’ remuneration policy. This covers both the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code applicable in 2024, and the revised
2024 UK Corporate Governance Code applicable from 2025 onwards. Information related to malus and clawback can be found on page 287.
Provision Approach
Clarity – The Committee regularly engages and consults with major shareholders to take into account shareholder
Remuneration arrangements should be transparent feedback and to ensure there is transparency on our policy and its implementation.
and promote effective engagement with – Details of our remuneration practices and our remuneration policy for Directors are published and
shareholders and the workforce. available to all our employees.
Simplicity – Our Directors’ remuneration policy has been designed so that it is easy to understand and transparent,
while complying with the provisions set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code and the remuneration
Remuneration structures should avoid complexity
rules of the UK’s PRA and FCA, as well as meeting the expectations of our shareholders. The objective of
and their rationale and operation should be easy to
each remuneration element is explained and the amount paid in respect of each element is clearly set
understand.
out.
Risk – In line with regulatory requirements, our remuneration practices promote sound and effective risk
management while supporting our business objectives.
Remuneration structures should identify and
– The Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer attends Committee meetings and updates the Committee
mitigate against reputational and other risks from
on the overall risk profile of the Group. The Committee also seeks inputs from the Group Risk Committee
excessive rewards, as well as behavioural risks that
when making remuneration decisions.
can arise from target-based incentive plans.
– Risk and conduct considerations are taken into account in setting the variable pay pool, from which any
executive Director variable pay is funded.
– Executive Directors' annual incentive and LTI scorecards include a mix of financial and non-financial
measures. Financial measures are subject to a CET1 underpin to ensure CET1 remains within risk
tolerance levels while achieving financial targets. In addition, the overall scorecard outcome is subject to
a risk and compliance modifier.
– The deferred portion of any awards granted to executive Directors is subject to a seven-year deferral
period during which our malus policy can be applied. All variable pay awards that have vested are subject
to our clawback policy for a period of up to seven years from the award date (extending to 10 years
where an investigation is ongoing).
Predictability – The charts set out on page 292 show how the total value of remuneration and its composition vary
under different performance scenarios for executive Directors.
The range of possible values of rewards to individual
Directors and any other limits or discretions should
be identified and explained at the time of approving
the policy.
Proportionality – The annual incentive and LTI scorecards reward achievement of our financial resource plan targets, as
well as long-term financial and shareholder value creation targets.
The link between individual awards, the delivery of
– The Committee retains the discretion to adjust the annual incentive and LTI payout based on the
strategy and the long-term performance of the
outcome of the relevant scorecards, if it considers that the payout determined does not appropriately
Group should be clear and outcomes should not
reflect the overall position and performance of the Group during the performance period.
reward poor performance.
Alignment with culture – In order for any annual incentive award to be made, each executive Director must achieve a minimum
standard of conduct, which is assessed by reference to HSBC values.
Incentive schemes should drive behaviours
– Annual incentive and LTI scorecards contain non-financial measures linked to our wider social strategy.
consistent with the Group’s purpose, values and
These include measures related to reducing the environmental impact of our operations, improving
strategy.
customer satisfaction and inclusion.
– Our Leadership 360 provides one of several ways for senior employees to ask for feedback about how
they lead to help inform their ongoing development.
Remuneration arrangements for colleagues
Our reward principles and commitments guide our approach to a certain level have a portion of their award deferred over a period
workforce reward and support our focus on being a great place to of three to seven years, or other period as required by regulators.
work. The Committee reviews these principles and commitments to
– LTI awards are considered for senior management, given their
support HSBC’s overall ability to attract, retain, develop and energise
ability to directly influence the Group's long-term performance.
the best people, and who are aligned to HSBC’s values. Full details of
our remuneration framework for colleagues is provided on page 295. The Board gathers views from our colleagues through a number of
Our executive Directors’ remuneration policy aligns with the engagement channels. Our management engages with colleagues,
framework for colleagues as follows: either on a Group-wide basis or in the context of smaller focus
groups, to solicit feedback generally on a wide range of matters,
– Externally sourced market data is used to help guide pay decisions
including pay. Our annual survey on pay seeks the views of all
for colleagues, including executive Directors.
colleagues on their performance and pay outcomes. The Committee
– The base salary increases for executive Directors take into reviews the outcomes of the survey and determines the key
consideration the base salary increases of colleagues across the remuneration priorities for the forthcoming year. Whilst we have not
Group, and relevant market conditions. explicitly sought the views of colleagues on the new policy, many of
our colleagues are also shareholders and therefore have the
– The cash in lieu of pension allowance for executive Directors will not
opportunity to vote on the policy at the 2025 AGM.
exceed the maximum contribution (as a percentage of salary) that can
be made for the majority of colleagues in the relevant jurisdiction. As part of our annual calendar, the Committee Chair also hosts a
– All colleagues are eligible to be considered for an annual incentive forum attended by the chairs of our principal subsidiary boards and
award based on their overall performance assessment, which remuneration committees. This allows the Committee to understand
considers performance against goals and role expectations, and local market factors and feedback gathered from colleagues, within
demonstration of our values-aligned behaviours. The variable pay the regions where we operate, on pay and performance matters. This
for all colleagues, including executive Directors, is funded from a also helps both management and the Committee to determine the
Group variable pay pool that is determined with reference to Group prioritisation of pay budgets, and allows the Committee to ensure that
performance. Colleagues who receive a variable pay award above funding is directed to the areas of need in support of the Group’s
strategic ambitions.

[PAGE 297]

Remuneration structure for colleagues
We set out below the key features of our remuneration framework, which applies on a Group-wide basis, subject to compliance with local laws:
Remuneration components Approach for executive
and objectives Application for Group employees Directors
Fixed pay – Fixed pay may include base salary, fixed pay allowances, cash in lieu of pension and other cash – Consistent with approach for
Attract and retain colleagues allowances in accordance with local market practice. Group colleagues except that
with market competitive pay – It is based on predetermined criteria, non-discretionary, transparent and not reduced based on under our proposed new
for the role, skills and performance. policy, executive Directors will
experience required. – It represents a higher proportion of total compensation for more junior colleagues. not receive a fixed pay
– Fixed pay may change to reflect an individual’s position, role or grade, cost of living in the allowance.
country, individual skills, capabilities and experience.
– Fixed pay is generally delivered in cash on a monthly basis.
Benefits – Benefits may include, but are not limited to, the provision of a pension, medical insurance, life – Provision of medical insurance,
Support the physical, mental insurance and health assessment. life insurance, car and tax
and financial health of a return assistance.
diverse workforce in
accordance with local market
practice.
Variable pay – All colleagues are eligible to be considered for a discretionary variable pay award. Individual – Annual incentive is determined
Incentivise and reward awards are determined against performance goals set at the start of the year. based on the outcomes of an
performance based on – Variable pay represents a higher proportion of total compensation for more senior colleagues to annual scorecard of financial
annual financial and non- strengthen alignment between total compensation and business performance. and non-financial measures.
financial measures – Variable pay for employees is limited to 10 times fixed pay, except where local regulations – Executive Directors and
consistent with the medium- require otherwise. members of the Group
to long-term strategy, – Awards are generally paid in cash and shares. For MRTs, at least 50% of the awards are in Operating Committee are also
stakeholder interests and shares and/or where required by regulations, in units linked to asset management funds. eligible to be considered for a
values-aligned behaviours. long-term incentive award,
which is subject to three-year
forward-looking performance
measures.
Buy-out awards – Buy-out awards may be offered if an individual holds any outstanding unvested awards that are – For new hires, the approach is
Support recruitment of key forfeited on resignation from the previous employer. consistent with the approach
individuals. – The terms of the buy-out awards will not be more generous than the terms attached to the taken for employees and the
awards forfeited on cessation of employment with the previous employer. policy approved by shareholders.
New hire indicative – New hire indicative variable pay is awarded in exceptional circumstances, typically involving a – For new hires, the approach is
variable pay critical senior new hire, and is limited to an individual’s first year of employment only. The award consistent with the approach
Support recruitment of key is subject to a number of factors (such as the respective performance of the Group, business taken for employees and the
individuals. unit and individual), and the final value paid remains at the full discretion of HSBC. policy approved by shareholders.
Deferral – A Group-wide deferral approach is applicable to all employees. A portion of annual incentive – All of the LTI award, or at least
Align employee interests awards above a specified threshold is deferred in shares vesting annually over a three-year 60% of the total variable
with the medium- to long- period (33% vesting on the first and second anniversaries of grant and 34% on the third). award (including LTI), is
term strategy, stakeholder – Awards for MRTs are paid in line with the PRA and FCA remuneration rules, and in compliance deferred. The deferred awards
interests and values-aligned with local regulations. will vest in five equal annual
behaviours. – This means that awards are generally subject to a minimum 40% deferral (60% for awards of instalments, with the first
£500,000 or more) over a minimum period of four years up to a maximum of seven years. vesting on or around the third
– Group standard deferral generally applies to MRTs identified as ’de minimis’. Individuals based anniversary of the grant date
outside the UK and identified as MRTs under local regulations, would be subject to local and the last instalment vesting
requirements where necessary. on or around the seventh
– All deferred awards are subject to malus provisions, subject to compliance with local laws. anniversary of the grant date.
Awards granted to MRTs on or after 1 January 2015 and awards granted to non-MRTs on or – All deferred awards are in
after 1 January 2022 are subject to clawback. HSBC shares and subject to a
– HSBC operates an anti-hedging policy for all employees, which prohibits employees from post-vesting retention period
entering into any personal hedging strategies in respect of HSBC securities. of one year.
– For all Group MRTs and the majority of local MRTs, excluding executive Directors, a minimum
50% of the deferred awards is in HSBC shares with the remaining portion in deferred cash.
Local regulatory requirements would also apply where necessary.
– For some employees in our asset management business, where required by the relevant
regulations, at least 50% of the deferred award is linked to fund units reflective of funds
managed by those entities, with the remaining portion in deferred cash awards.
– Variable pay awards made in HSBC shares or linked to relevant fund units granted to MRTs are
generally subject to a one-year retention period post-vesting.
– MRTs who are subject to a five-year deferral period, except senior management or individuals in
PRA- and FCA-designated senior management functions, have a six-month retention period
applied to their awards.
– Where an employee is subject to more than one regulation, the requirement specific to the
sector and/or country in which the individual is working is applied.
Severance payments – Where an individual’s employment is terminated involuntarily for gross misconduct then, – Any payments will be in line
Adhere to contractual subject to compliance with local laws, the Group’s policy is not to make any severance with the policy on loss of
agreements with involuntary payment and all outstanding unvested awards are forfeited. office.
leavers. – For other cases of involuntary termination of employment, the determination of any
severance will take into consideration the performance of the individual, contractual notice
period, applicable local laws and circumstances of the case.
– Generally, for good leavers, all outstanding unvested awards will normally continue to vest in
line with the applicable vesting dates. Where relevant, any performance conditions attached to
the awards, and malus and clawback provisions, will remain applicable to those awards.
– Severance amounts awarded to MRTs are not considered as variable pay for the purpose of
application of the deferral and variable pay cap rules under the PRA and FCA remuneration rules
where such amounts include: (i) payments of fixed remuneration that would have been payable
during the notice and/or consultation period; (ii) statutory severance payments; (iii) payments
determined in accordance with any approach applicable in the relevant jurisdictions; and (iv)
payments made to settle a potential or actual dispute.
Corporate
governance

[PAGE 298]

Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report
This section sets out how our approved Directors’ remuneration policy was implemented during 2024.
Single total figure of remuneration
(Audited)
The following table shows the single total figure of remuneration of each executive Director for 2024, together with comparative figures. Sir
Noel Quinn retired as Group CEO and as an executive Director of the Board on 2 September 2024 and was succeeded by Georges Elhedery.
The figures below reflect the remuneration paid in respect of time spent as executive Director during 2024.
Single total figure of remuneration
Sir Noel Quinn Georges Elhedery
(£000) 2024 2023 2024 2023
Base salary 914 1,336 989 780
Fixed pay allowance (’FPA’) 1,138 1,700 1,288 1,085
Cash in lieu of pension 91 134 99 78
Taxable benefits1 66 127 39 4
Non-taxable benefits 60 89 58 52
Total fixed 2,270 3,386 2,473 1,999
Annual incentive2,3 1,540 2,018 1,677 1,287
Notional returns4 56 43 8 6
Replacement award — — — —
Long-term incentive5,6 5,298 4,949 1,207 —
Total variable 6,894 7,010 2,891 1,293
Total fixed and variable 9,164 10,396 5,364 3,292
1 Taxable benefits include the provision of medical insurance, car benefit, accommodation and tax return assistance (including any associated tax due, where applicable).
Non-taxable benefits include the provision of life assurance and other insurance cover.
2 Sir Noel Quinn was not eligible to be considered for a 2025-2027 LTI award. To satisfy regulatory requirements, 40% of the annual incentive award for Sir Noel Quinn
is delivered immediately and 60% is deferred. Both immediate and deferred portions of the award are split evenly between cash and shares. The shares portion of the
award is subject to a retention period of one year and both the shares and the deferred cash portions of the award are subject to clawback provisions.
3 The annual incentive award for Georges Elhedery is awarded 50% in cash and 50% in shares. The shares portion of the award vests immediately at grant and is
subject to a retention period of one year and clawback provisions.
4 Deferred cash awards granted in prior years include a right to receive notional returns for the period between the grant and vesting date. This is determined by
reference to a rate of return specified at the time of grant and paid annually, with the amount disclosed on a paid basis.
5 LTI awards were made in February 2022 (in respect of 2021) at a share price of £5.380 for which the performance period ended on 31 December 2024. The value of
the awards has been computed based on a share price of £7.184, the average share price during the three-month period to 31 December 2024. The value attributable
to share price appreciation for Sir Noel Quinn is £1,330,238 and for Georges Elhedery is £303,006. The vesting LTI granted to Georges Elhedery was in respect of
2021 performance in his role as Co-CEO, GBM. See the following section for details of the performance assessment, which resulted in 75.00% vesting.
6 The value of the 2021-2023 LTI for Sir Noel Quinn has been restated based on a share price of £5.899 to reflect the value of the award on 12 March 2024, when the
first tranche of the award vested. In 2023, the value was based on the average share price during the three-month period to 31 December 2023 of £6.192.
Benefits
The values of the significant benefits in the single total figure table are set out in the following table. The accommodation benefits in Hong Kong
and the car benefits for Georges Elhedery are not included in the table below as they were not deemed significant.
Sir Noel Quinn Georges Elhedery
(£000) 2024 2023 2024 2023
Group income protection (non-taxable) 57 84 49 49
Accommodation in Hong Kong (taxable) 18 67 — —
Car and driver in UK and Hong Kong (taxable) 15 47 — —
Determining executive Directors’ incentive outcomes
(Audited)
Both executive Directors met the minimum standard of conduct and Diversity representation target ranges were set based on a trajectory
behaviour for an annual incentive award to be made. to meet our external commitments. Other strategic measures were
set based on maintaining or improving when compared with 2023
The award is determined by applying the outcome of their annual
performance and/or market benchmarks.
scorecard to the maximum opportunity, set at 215% of base salary.
In assessing performance, the Committee considered, and made no
Sir Noel Quinn has been assessed on full-year performance against
adjustment for, the impact of interest rates, re-confirming that
the Group CEO annual scorecard with his pay outcome pro-rated for
variations in the macroeconomic environment and their impact on
time in role up to and including 1 September 2024. Georges Elhedery
business outcomes remain for our executives to manage.
has been assessed on full-year performance against both the Group
CEO and Group CFO scorecards with his pay outcome pro-rated The Committee considered carefully the wider context in which
based on the time spent and salary received in each role. performance was delivered in 2024 and judged that the overall
scorecard outcome for both Sir Noel Quinn and Georges Elhedery
The financial measures, weightings and targets were set at the start
was appropriate against the targets set at the start of the year for
of the year to align with our reported financial performance, excluding
financial, strategic and personal measures.
notable items, to ensure that out-turns were not impacted by one-
offs. In setting the targets, the Committee considered the 2024 Taking into account inputs from the Group Risk Committee, the
financial plan, 2023 performance, external commitments, scenario Committee concluded that the risk and compliance modifier should not
testing of upside and downside risks in the plan, and analyst be applied for 2024 based on the Group’s performance against key risk
consensus where available. metrics for either Sir Noel Quinn or Georges Elhedery.

[PAGE 299]

Annual incentive scorecard assessment
(Audited)
Summary assessment
Minimum Maximum Weighting Assessment Sir Noel Quinn Georges Elhedery
(25% payout) (100% payout) Performance (%) (%) Outcome (%) Outcome (%)
Profit before tax ($bn)1 27.1 33.5 34.1 15.0 100.00 15.00 15.00
Target basis operating expenses ($bn)1 32.9 32.3 32.6 15.0 60.09 9.01 9.01
Group RoTE1,2 13.5% 16.5% 16.0% 25.0 87.50 21.88 21.88
Asia RoTE1,2 15.1% 18.1% 18.2% 5.0 100.00 5.00 5.00
Customer satisfaction 15.0 75.00 11.25 11.25
Employee experience 10.0 70.00 7.00 7.00
See following tables for commentary
Wider society 5.0 50.00 2.50 2.50
Personal measures 10.0 6.17 7.15
Total 100.0 77.81 78.79
Scorecard outcome (000) £1,540 £1,677
Risk adjustment (000) £— £—
Annual incentive (000) £1,540 £1,677
1 Excluding notable items.
2 The CET1 capital ratio of 14.9% exceeded the tolerance level in the risk appetite statement as required by the underpin.
Strategic measures for both executive Directors
Measures Weighting Performance achievement Assessment Outcome
Customer Maintain and improve 15.0% – The Committee assessed performance against a scorecard of quantitative 75.00% 11.25%
satisfaction NPS in the UK and targets set at the start of the year, and using NPS data from external providers.
Hong Kong, and in – In Hong Kong we met our NPS targets, and are ranked in first place in both CMB
key growth markets and WPB.
– In HSBC UK, WPB saw a modest improvement in rank by two positions to joint
11th. In CMB, as measured by the Savanta MarketVue Business Banking
Survey, our Mid-Market Enterprise (’MME’) segment has improved its rank to
2nd position at FY24 (FY23: 3rd). Our Large Corporate sector was ranked 3rd for
NPS in the 2024 Coalition Greenwich UK Commercial Study.
– For other key growth markets, in WPB we improved rank in Singapore, but saw
a decline in India and rank remained stable in Mexico and China. In CMB,
Singapore and India rankings are in the Top 3.
– GBM has seen an improvement globally rising from 3rd to 2nd place.
– Overall, the Committee assessed that the NPS targets were met.
Employee Improve diversity and 10.0% – Senior leadership representation for women increased by 0.5 percentage points 70.00% 7.00%
experience inclusion year-on-year to 34.6%, exceeding the target set.
– Senior leadership colleagues with Asian heritage increased by 1.5 percentage
points year-on-year to 39.3%, exceeding target.
– The percentage of Black heritage colleagues in senior leadership roles remained
flat at 3.0%, which was above the minimum set, but behind target.
– The Inclusion index in our employee Snapshot survey remained flat at 78%,
above minimum, but behind target.
Wider Execution of 5.0% – Whilst the Sustainability Execution Programme (’SEP’) is on track with mitigating 50.00% 2.50%
society sustainability actions in place for known risks, the Committee assessment considered that the
commitments pace of progress could have been accelerated with greater management focus.
– The absolute financed emissions for oil & gas and thermal coal mining exceeded
the 2024 goal on the trajectory towards our 2030 reduction target.
Personal measures for the Group CEO and the Group CFO
Personal measures were set at the start of the year and measured by the Committee against agreed targets and key performance indicators.
Group CEO Weighting Assessment Performance achievement
Technology 4.67% 75.00% – Progress was made on our technology strategy through mobilisation of 83% value streams with clear
transformation accountability across technology and business leads.
– Future State Architecture (’FSA’), which defines the technology roadmap, was agreed for four areas
(Wholesale Credit & Lending, GPB & Wealth, Global FX and Wholesale Client Services Onboarding and Know
Your Customer) with 97% of FSAs approved providing a better end-state view of our strategic application
estate.
Driving data quality 2.33% 50.00% – The Committee’s assessment balanced strong progress against the targets set at the start of the year, while
remediation noting that data risk is one of the three principal risk areas to have a material impact on the Group in 2024,
and taking into consideration regulatory feedback.
Simplification of 3.0% 50.00% – In 2024, we completed the sales of our retail banking operations in France, and businesses in Canada,
processes and Argentina, Russia and Armenia. We announced divestments in our private banking business in Germany and
organisation our business in South Africa, and announced the planned sale of our France life insurance business. We
acquired SilkRoad Property Partners Group in Singapore and Citi’s retail wealth management portfolio in
mainland China. In October 2024, we announced a simplified organisational structure.
Total 6.17% out of 10.00%
Corporate
governance

[PAGE 300]

Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report
Personal measures for the Group CEO and the Group CFO (continued)
Group CFO Weighting Assessment Performance achievement
Deliver activities 5.0% 75.00% – The Committee’s assessment considered improved regulatory feedback on recovery and resolution planning
relating to activity, and measurement and management of IRRBB risk.
regulatory priorities – The Integrity of Regulatory Reporting programme continues to remediate against known gaps to deliver
improvements in the quality of regulatory returns, partially meeting the targets set at the start of the year.
– The regulatory excellence programme achieved efficiencies and outcomes broadly in line with the targets and
milestones set, and the Finance on The Cloud programme successfully closed in April 2024.
Enhanced 2.5% 67.86% – Implemented enhanced disclosures covering banking NII, structural hedge and multi-jurisdictional revenue.
disclosures and – Progress against external disclosure commitments for scope 3 emissions of Pillar 3 sections and coal
controls exposures and delivery of other ESG regulatory deliverables including climate risk stress testing and
regulatory reporting.
Drive liquidity and 2.5% 87.50% – Strong capital and liquidity positions with no breaches in risk appetite, meeting the targets set.
capital management
across the Group
Total 7.63% out of 10.00%
Long-term incentive (’LTI’) awards
LTI awards over 2022 to 2024 performance period
(Audited)
Sir Noel Quinn, Georges Elhedery and Ewen Stevenson were each The Committee determined that there were no windfall gains to
granted a 2022–2024 LTI award in February 2022. In line with the consider for this award given the share price at grant (£5.38) was
terms of his departure, Ewen Stevenson is a good leaver and his above the share price at the previous LTI grant (£4.26).
award has been pro-rated for time in employment.
The 2022–2024 LTI award is subject to a risk and compliance
The scorecard delivered an outcome of 75.00%, reflecting strong modifier. The Committee received input from the GRC who assessed
shareholder returns across the performance period. that the performance targets were delivered with appropriate risk
management. On this basis, the Committee considered that no
Based on the performance outcome, 737,504 shares will vest for Sir
adjustment for risk should be made.
Noel Quinn, 167,991 shares will vest for Georges Elhedery and
191,224 shares will vest for Ewen Stevenson. The awards will vest in
five equal annual instalments commencing in March 2025.
Assessment of the 2022–2024 LTI awards
Minimum Target Maximum
Measures (weighting)1 (25% payout) (50% payout) (100% payout) Actual Assessment Outcome
RoTE with CET1 capital ratio underpin2 (25%) 8.0% 9.5% 11.0% 14.6% 100.0% 25.00%
Capital reallocation to Asia with CET1 capital ratio
underpin3 (25%) 46.0% 48.0% 50.0% 43.7% 0.0% 0.00%
Carbon reduction (own
52.0% 56.0% 60.0% 66.1% 100.0% 12.50%
Transition to net emissions)
zero4 (25%) Sustainable finance and
$285bn $340bn $370bn $394bn 100.0% 12.50%
investment
Straight-line vesting
Relative TSR5 (25%) At median of the between minimum At upper quartile of Above upper 100.0% 25.00%
peer group the peer group quartile
and maximum
Total 75.00%
1 Awards vest on a straight-line basis for performance between the minimum, target and maximum levels of performance set out in this table.
2 Assessed based on RoTE in the 2024 financial year. The CET1 capital ratio of 14.9% exceeded the level required by the underpin.
3 Assessed based on share of Group tangible equity (on a constant currency basis and excluding associates) allocated to Asia by 31 December 2024.
4 Carbon reduction assessed on percentage reduction in total energy and travel emissions achieved by 31 December 2024 using 2019 as the baseline. Sustainable
finance and investment assessed on cumulative financing provided over the performance period.
5 The peer group was: Bank of America, Barclays, BNP Paribas, Citigroup, DBS Group Holdings, Deutsche Bank, J.P. Morgan Chase & Co., Lloyds Banking Group,
Morgan Stanley, Standard Chartered and UBS Group. Credit Suisse Group was removed following its acquisition by UBS Group in June 2023.

[PAGE 301]

LTI awards over 2025 to 2027 performance period
After taking into account performance for 2024, and subject to The Committee will continue to keep the environment measures and
shareholder approval of the new policy, the Committee intends to weighting under review for future performance cycles.
grant Georges Elhedery an LTI award of £9,000,000 and Pam Kaur an
Performance targets have been set to balance stretch and
LTI award of £5,250,000 (both 600% of base salary). The awards will
achievability so that awards act as an effective incentive for
have a three-year performance period starting on 1 January 2025.
management, and incentivise outperformance against our external
Alongside reviewing the policy, the Committee has undertaken a strategic commitments. The proposed change in remuneration
comprehensive review of the performance measures used for our structure will be supported by target ranges calibrated to reflect the
incentive arrangements to ensure alignment to the Group's priorities increase to the remuneration opportunity.
and balance delivery of financial and strategic performance.
It was recognised by investors in our engagement that our recent LTI
For the 2025-2027 LTI, we will retain Group RoTE, relative TSR and targets have been set to deliver maximum payouts only for
environment measures, reflecting our strategic commitments, and to outperformance compared to consensus and our external strategic
assess relative performance compared with peers. commitments.
We will increase the weighting of RoTE to 40%, reflecting that the For 2025-2027 awards:
delivery of a strong stable return on tangible equity is a core measure
– The maximum target for RoTE reflects stretch above plan and
of the sustainable returns expected by our investors. Group RoTE will
performance forecasts, taking into account the macroeconomic
be assessed excluding notable items in the last year of assessment to
environment. The minimum target for RoTE is aligned to our
mirror our outlook on RoTE which targets a mid-teens return in each
external commitment of mid-teens RoTE over the medium term.
of the three years from 2025 to 2027 excluding notable items.
– The minimum target for relative TSR is set ‘at the median of our
The RoTE measure is subject to a CET1 capital ratio underpin. If the
peer group’, which ensures no payout for below median
CET1 capital ratio at the end of the performance period is below the
performance aligned to investor expectations. The maximum is set
CET1 risk tolerance level set in the risk appetite statement, then the
‘at the upper quartile of our peer group’.
assessment for this measure will be reduced to nil.
– Our emissions reduction targets have been set based on meeting
We will increase the weighting of relative TSR to 40% as it is a key
our forecasts relating to emissions reduction and purchase of
measure of shareholder returns, a material relative measure used by
renewable energy.
our peers and in line with investor expectations. No changes have
been made to our relative TSR peer group, which continues to include – For the sustainable finance and investment measure, we have set
more Asian peers to better reflect our growth and investment focus performance targets to support our ambition announced in 2020 to
following a review in 2023. provide $750bn to $1tn of financing and investment by 2030. We
reflected on sustainable financing forecasts, market demand, and
Following feedback from our shareholders on the metrics used and regulation, as well as higher LTI opportunity in setting the stretch
recognising the increase in LTI opportunity, we have reduced the in the target range.
overall weighting of the environment measure from 25% to 20% to
ensure a greater proportion of the LTI is aligned to value creation The LTI is subject to a risk and compliance modifier, which gives the
while supporting our ESG ambitions. Committee the discretion to ensure performance targets are delivered
with appropriate risk management.
The Committee completed a comprehensive review of the
environment metrics in the LTI and discussed with major Consistent with our approach since 2017, the number of shares to be
shareholders. At this stage, financed emission targets remain difficult awarded will be adjusted to reflect the expected dividend yield of the
to include given challenges in the methodology, timeliness and shares over the vesting period, as awards are not entitled to dividend
frequency of reporting. This was recognised by the investors we equivalents in accordance with regulatory requirements.
spoke to as part of our policy engagement. We therefore decided to To the extent performance conditions are satisfied at the end of the
retain metrics on carbon reduction in our own emissions and three-year performance period, the awards will vest in five equal
sustainable finance and investment, given we cannot currently use annual instalments commencing from around the third anniversary of
financed emissions, which is a material metric in supporting our ESG the grant date. On vesting, shares equivalent to the net number of
ambitions. shares that have vested (after those sold to cover any income tax and
social security payable) will be held for a retention period of up to one
year, or such period as required by regulators.
Performance conditions for the 2025–2027 LTI awards
Minimum Target Maximum
Measures (weighting)1 (25% payout) (50% payout) (100% payout)
RoTE (excluding notable items) with CET1 capital ratio
underpin2 (40%) 14.0% 16.0% 18.0%
Relative TSR3 (40%) At the median of the Straight-line vesting between At the upper quartile of the
peer group minimum and maximum peer group
Carbon reduction (own
71.0% 73.0% 78.0%
emissions)
Environment4 (20%)
Sustainable finance and
$648.0bn $720.0bn $792.0bn
investment
Subject to risk and compliance modifier
The Group Remuneration Committee retains the discretion to revise down the formulaic outcome taking into account performance against risk and compliance
factors during the performance period.
1 Awards will vest on a straight-line basis for performance between the minimum, target and maximum levels of performance set in this table.
2 To be assessed based on RoTE excluding notable items at the end of the performance period, subject to the CET1 capital ratio underpin.
3 The peer group for the 2024 award is: Bank of China (Hong Kong), Barclays, BNP Paribas, China Merchants Bank, Citigroup, DBS Group Holdings, J.P. Morgan
Chase & Co., Lloyds Banking Group, OCBC Bank, Standard Chartered and UBS Group.
4 Carbon reduction will be measured based on percentage reduction in total energy and travel emissions achieved by 31 December 2027 using 2019 as the
baseline. The sustainable finance and investment measure will assess the cumulative amount provided and facilitated over the performance period starting from
1 January 2020 and ending 31 December 2027.
Corporate
governance

[PAGE 302]

Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report
Annual incentive measures for 2025
The 2025 annual incentive scorecard measures for our executive Performance targets have been set to reflect the Group’s 2025 plan,
Directors have been set to incentivise the delivery of our strategy and external commitments, scenario testing of upside and downside risks
its execution at pace. in the plan while considering macroeconomic uncertainty, including
the interest rate environment and analyst consensus where available.
Following the Committee’s comprehensive review of the policy and
The performance targets are commercially sensitive, and it would be
its implementation, core measures of PBT, Group RoTE and costs
detrimental to the Group’s interests to disclose them at the start of
have been retained, with each assessed excluding notable items so
the financial year. However, as with the 2025-2027 LTI scorecard, the
that the outcome reflects performance in the control of management.
Committee is mindful that targets must remain suitably stretching to
support the increased remuneration opportunity of the new policy.
We have introduced a measure on fee income growth relative to
balance sheet growth to incentivise growth with less reliance on
Subject to commercial sensitivity, we will disclose the targets in the
capital. To simplify and retain financial measures at 60% of the
2025 Directors’ remuneration report.
scorecard (in order to meet regulatory expectations), we have
reduced the weighting for PBT to 10% and removed the Asia RoTE
measure to reduce overlap with Group RoTE. 2025 annual incentive performance measures Weighting
Financial measures (all measures subject to CET1 capital
The Committee felt it appropriate to have financials weighted at 60% 60.0%
ratio underpin)
to balance alignment with shareholder performance and regulatory
Group RoTE (excluding notable items) 25.0%
expectations, and in line with UK peers.
Profit before tax (excluding notable items) 10.0%
Customer Net Promoter Score (’NPS’) has been retained to reflect our Fee income growth relative to balance sheet growth 10.0%
ambition to be a top-three bank for customer satisfaction and/or Target basis operating expenses (excluding notable items) 15.0%
improve customer satisfaction rank. Strategic measures 30.0%
Customer satisfaction:
15.0%
We have added a measure focused on delivery of benefits from the Improvement in NPS scores/rank
organisational change. Deliver benefits of announced organisational changes 8.0%
People and culture:
Our people and culture measures support our strategy to have an 7.0%
Inclusion and retention of high performers
inclusive culture of high performance. The Committee intends to
assess this by considering our established inclusion index, the Personal measures
– Group CEO: Deliver enterprise-wide foundational priorities
retention of high performers and other relevant indicators.
including regulatory excellence, wealth acceleration and
We have removed the sustainability measure introduced in 2024 to strategic investments, and the Group's technology strategy. 10.0%
– Group CFO: Deliver activities relating to regulatory excellence
reduce duplication with the environment measure in the LTI, which
priorities, Group Sustainability priorities, and robust liquidity
better reflects the time horizon of our sustainability commitments.
and capital management.
Personal measures have been set to ensure meaningful weighting for Subject to risk and compliance modifier
the most critical goals for each executive Director. The Group Remuneration Committee retains the discretion to
revise down the formulaic outcome taking into account
The Committee will continue to retain discretion to adjust the performance against risk and compliance factors during the
performance period.
formulaic outcomes of scorecards, taking into account factors such as
Group profits, wider business performance and stakeholder
experience, to ensure executive reward is aligned with underlying
Group performance and the broader stakeholder experience.
The weightings and performance measures for the 2025 annual
incentive scorecard for executive Directors are opposite.

[PAGE 303]

Our approach to workforce reward
Our goal is to deliver a unique and exceptional experience to energise – We introduced 'Target Variable Pay' to over 150,000 colleagues in 46
colleagues to perform at their best. This is critical to strengthening our markets, helping improve clarity and transparency on how we make
ability to attract, retain and motivate the people we need in competitive pay decisions and the impact of Group, business and individual
markets where employee expectations continue to evolve. performance on variable pay.
Our workforce reward principles and commitments guide our – We continued to improve our wellbeing offering by enhancing
approach and support our focus on being a great place to work. country Employee Assistance Programmes, increasing the number
of mental health champions to expand the network's global reach,
– We will reward our colleagues responsibly through fixed pay developing new financial wellbeing support and running global
security and protection through core benefits, a competitive total activity challenges to improve employees' physical wellbeing.
compensation opportunity, pay equity, and a more inclusive and
sustainable benefits proposition over time. The Committee tracks various metrics to assess how we are doing and
prioritise action plans. Our approach overall is working and has positively
– We will recognise colleagues' success through our performance
contributed to employee engagement, which has risen to a record high
routines, including feedback and recognition, pay for performance,
of 80% in our employee Snapshot survey. Additional metrics
and all employee share ownership opportunities.
highlighting some of our areas of focus in 2024 are outlined below.
– We will support our colleagues to grow through our proposition
Our approach to workforce reward forms part of our broader
beyond pay, with a focus on future skills and development, support
employee value proposition and helps us retain and engage the
for well-being, and flexibility.
leaders and people we need to execute our strategy. We will continue
In 2024, we made several changes to improve colleague experience and to track and measure progress against key metrics at a Group, global
unlock our performance edge: business and market level and use these insights to inform what
improvements we can make. In 2025, we will continue to embed our
– We introduced new performance routines to over 200,000 performance and pay changes, protect well-being and flexibility, and
colleagues in 58 markets, so colleagues know what is expected of reinvest in colleagues' skills development.
them, how they are doing and how they can improve. This is
achieved by discussing performance more frequently through the
year, regularly exchanging feedback and simplifying year-end
performance assessment to focus less on ratings and more on a
dialogue between managers and colleagues.
We will reward Living wage Fixed pay Pay fairness
you responsibly
Global living wage
3.6% 5
percentage
employer p
(2023: 4.4%) points
Following our accreditation as a global increase to fixed pay for 2025, targeted at increase in the number of colleagues who
living wage employer in 2024, we have colleagues that need it most, such as say they are paid fairly for what they do,
continued to work with the Fair Wage those in high inflation markets. compared with the 2021 year-end pay
Network which provides an independent review.
source of wage levels. HSBC has
achieved accreditation as a global living
wage employer in 2025 and will
continue to review all wages against
local living wage benchmarks.
We will recognise Feedback Recognition
your success 81% 42% 1.5m
(2023: 81% ) p (2023: 1.4m) p
of colleagues say they receive feedback average monthly increase in colleagues recognitions by employees of their peers
to help them improve performance. receiving feedback compared to 2023. for demonstrating role model behaviours
that are linked to our values, up 7% on
2023.
We will support Mental health Financial wellbeing Career
you to grow #1 65% 71%
(2023: #1) (2023: 60%) p (2023: 71%)
in the Global CCLA Corporate Mental of colleagues say they know where to find Our Career Index is six percentage points
Health Benchmark for the third year financial wellbeing support, an increase of higher than the financial services
running. five percentage points compared to 2023. benchmark.
Corporate
governance

[PAGE 304]

Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report
Committee governance
The Group Chairman, Chair of the Group Risk Committee, Group A copy of the Committee’s terms of reference can be found on our
CEO, Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, Group Chief People website at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/our-people/board-of-directors/
and Governance Officer, Group Chief Legal Officer, Global Head of board-committees and further information on stakeholder
Remuneration Governance and Regulatory Accountabilities engagement for setting the remuneration policy is set out from
(Committee Secretary), and Group Head of Performance and Reward page 285.
routinely and selectively attend Committee meetings.
The Committee Secretary regularly met with the Chair to ensure the
No Director is present at Committee meetings when their own Committee fulfilled its governance responsibilities, to consider input
remuneration is discussed. from stakeholders when finalising meeting agendas and track
progress on actions and priorities. A summary of coverage is set out
The Chair regularly engaged with the Committee’s key stakeholders,
in the ’Matters considered during 2024’ table below.
including senior management, independent advisors, investors, proxy
advisors and regulators to listen to numerous perspectives to help
inform the broader decision-making of the Committee.
Matters considered during 2024
Feb1 Feb1 Jun2 Jun Jul Sep2 Sep Oct2 Dec
Remuneration framework and governance
Group variable pay, workforce performance and pay matters and insights u u u u u u u u u
Directors’ remuneration policy design u u u u u u u u u
Executive Director remuneration policy implementation, scorecards and pay proposals u u u u u u u u u
Remuneration for other senior executives of the Group u u u u u u u u u
Directors’ remuneration report u u u u u u u u u
Regulatory, risk and governance
Material risk and audit events, and performance and remuneration impacts for individuals involved u u u u u u u u u
Regulatory updates, including identification of Material Risk Takers u u u u u u u u u
Governance matters u u u u u u u u u
Matters from principal subsidiary committees u u u u u u u u u
u Matter considered u Matter not considered
1 There were two meetings held during February.
2 The June, September and October meetings were ad hoc with reduced agenda.
How the Committee discharged its responsibilities
Activities outside formal meetings The Committee received certifications from the principal subsidiary
remuneration committees, confirming that the relevant committee
In addition to its regular schedule, the Committee convened three ad
had discharged its obligations overseeing the implementation and
hoc meetings to facilitate oversight of key topics under its remit in
operation of HSBC’s Group Remuneration Framework and escalated
support of strategic priorities and initiatives during 2024.
all relevant concerns to the Committee. A regular report is presented
The Committee keeps abreast of regulatory and investor to the Committee highlighting significant remuneration matters from
developments and periodically undertakes training to explore key the Group’s subsidiaries.
topics in more detail. A comprehensive induction session was held
Collaborative oversight by the GRC, GAC and
with Kalpana Morparia in October 2024 to introduce her to the work
of the Committee. GTOC
Connectivity with principal subsidiary The Committee worked closely with, and received feedback and input
from, the GRC and GAC on the alignment of remuneration with risk
remuneration committees appetite, conduct and compliance-related matters, including risk
The Chair hosted the biannual Remuneration Committee Chairs adjustment considerations for Group variable pay and the application
Forum in October and November 2024, bringing together Committee of the risk modifier in respect of senior employees.
members and Chairs of the principal subsidiary remuneration
The Chair met with the Chair of the GRC, GAC and GTOC to consider
committees. The forum provided the opportunity for members to
the Group’s risk and reward alignment framework, which is designed
discuss key priorities and challenges in relation to people,
to promote sound and effective risk management in meeting PRA and
performance and pay matters across the Group. The focus in October
FCA remuneration rules and expectations. During the year, the Chair
was progress on Committee priorities for the year including the
of the Committee hosted a joint session with the GRC and GTOC to
development of a new executive Director policy, progress on
consider improvements to the risk and reward framework, more
delivering the employee value proposition commitments and to
details of which can be found on page 304.
receive regional feedback on key considerations for the 2024 pay
review. In November, the forum focused on the preliminary Group
variable pay for 2024, and allocation by business, function and region
and the 2025 fixed pay budgets.

[PAGE 305]

Advisers Committee performance review
The Committee received input and advice from different advisers on In 2024, the annual review of the performance of the Board
specific topics during 2024. Deloitte was retained as independent committees, including the Committee, was conducted externally by
advisor to the Committee in 2024 having been reappointed in 2022 IBE. On the basis of the review, the directors concluded that the
following a formal tender process. Deloitte also provided tax Committee continued to operate effectively.
compliance and other advisory services to the Group in 2024. Deloitte
Positive feedback was noted on the leadership of the Committee
is a founding member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and
Chair and membership of the Committee, which was considered to
voluntarily operates under the code of conduct in relation to executive
have practical overlap of members with other Board committees, and
remuneration consulting in the UK.
an appropriate flow of information between Committee Chairs.
The Committee also received advice from Willis Towers Watson on
The review highlighted the importance of both continuing to consider
market data and remuneration trends. Willis Towers Watson also
performance and pay for the wider workforce, and taking the
provides actuarial support to Global Finance, benchmarking data for
opportunity to take a fresh look at the performance and pay approach
the wider workforce and services related to benefits administration
in the context of changes to the employee value proposition.
for our Group employees. The Committee was satisfied the advice
provided by Deloitte and Willis Towers Watson was objective and
The outcomes of the evaluation have been reported to the Board, and
independent in 2024.
the Committee will track the progress in implementing
recommendations during 2025.
For 2024, total fees of £275,150 and £68,971 were incurred in relation
to remuneration advice provided by Deloitte and Willis Towers
Further details of the annual review of the Board and Committee
Watson, respectively. This was based on pre-agreed fees and a time-
effectiveness can be found on page 257.
and-materials basis.
Corporate
governance

[PAGE 306]

Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report
Additional remuneration disclosures
This section provides further information in relation to executive Director and wider workforce remuneration as required by the UK, Hong Kong,
and Pillar 3 remuneration disclosure requirements. For the purpose of the Pillar 3 remuneration disclosures, executive Directors and non-
executive Directors are considered to be members of the management body. Members of the Group Executive Committee other than the
executive Directors are considered as senior management.
Link between risk, performance and reward
Our remuneration practices promote sound and effective risk management to support our business objectives and the delivery of our strategy.
We set out below the key features of our framework, which enable us to align between risk, performance and reward, subject to compliance
with local laws and regulations:
Framework
elements Application
Variable pay – Group variable pay is expected to reflect Group performance, based on a range of financial and non-financial factors. We use a structured
payout ratio range, that varies the payout ratio with profits before tax, and a countercyclical funding methodology, with both a floor and a
ceiling, with the payout ratio generally reducing as performance increases to avoid pro-cyclicality. The floor recognises that even in challenging
times, remaining competitive is important. The ceiling recognises that at higher levels of performance it is not always necessary to continue to
increase variable pay, thereby limiting the risk of inappropriate behaviour to drive financial performance.
– The main quantitative and qualitative performance and risk metrics used for assessment of performance include:
– Group and business unit financial performance, considering contextual factors driving performance, and capital requirements;
– current and future risks, taking into consideration performance against the risk appetite, financial resourcing plan and global conduct
outcomes; and
– fines, penalties and provisions for customer redress, which are automatically included in the Committee’s definition of profit for
determining the pool.
– In the event that the Group was unable to distribute dividends to shareholders for reasons such as capital adequacy, then the Group may
determine that as a year of weak performance. In such a year, the Group may withhold some, or all, variable pay for employees including
unvested share awards, using the metrics outlined above as a basis for that determination.
Individual – Assessment of individual performance is made with reference to clear and relevant financial and non-financial goals. Goals for senior
performance management take into account appropriate measures linked to sustainability risks, such as: reduction in carbon footprint; facilitating financing
to help clients with their transition to net zero; employee inclusion; and risk and compliance measures, subject to local legal requirements.
– A mandatory global risk and compliance goal is included for all other employees. Subject to any legal/regulatory requirements, all employees
receive an overall performance assessment supported by an assessment against the minimum values-aligned behaviours and conduct
standards expected of all colleagues and performance on their goals. This ensures that performance is assessed not only on what is achieved
but also on how it is achieved.
Control – Group policy is for control functions staff to report into their respective function. Remuneration decisions for senior functional roles are made
function staff by the global function head.
– The performance and reward of individuals in control functions, including risk and compliance colleagues, are assessed according to a balanced
scorecard of goals specific to the functional role they undertake.
– Their remuneration is determined independent of the performance of the business areas they oversee.
– Remuneration is carefully benchmarked with the market and internally to ensure it is set at an appropriate level.
– The Committee is responsible for approving remuneration for the Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer and Group Head of Internal Audit.
Variable pay – Variable pay awards may be adjusted upwards or downwards to reflect positive or negative conduct in adherence with the Code of Conduct.
adjustments Downward adjustments can be made in circumstances including:
and conduct – detrimental conduct, including conduct that brings HSBC into disrepute;
recognition – involvement in events resulting in significant operational losses, or events that have caused or have the potential to cause significant harm
to HSBC; and
– non-compliance with the values-aligned behaviours and other mandatory requirements or policies.
– Rewarding positive conduct can be through use of our global recognition platform, At Our Best, or positive adjustments to variable pay awards.
Malus – Malus can be applied to unvested deferred awards (up to 100% of awards) granted in prior years in circumstances including:
– detrimental conduct, including conduct that brings the business into disrepute;
– past performance being materially worse than originally reported;
– restatement, correction or amendment of any financial statements; and
– improper or inadequate risk management.
Clawback – Clawback can be applied to vested or paid awards granted to MRTs on or after 1 January 2015 (and awards granted to non-MRTs on or after
1 January 2022) for a period of seven years, extended to 10 years for employees in PRA and FCA designated senior management functions in
the event of ongoing internal/regulatory investigation at the end of the seven-year period. Clawback may be applied in circumstances including:
– participation in, or responsibility for, conduct that results in significant losses;
– failing to meet appropriate standards and propriety;
– reasonable evidence of misconduct or material error that would justify, or would have justified, summary termination of a contract of
employment; and
– a material failure of risk management suffered by HSBC or a business unit in the context of Group risk-management standards, policies and
procedures.
– Clawback can also be applied to vested or paid awards granted to designated Executive Officers as defined by the US Securities and Exchange
Commission (’SEC’) for a period of three years in the event of an accounting restatement due to material non-compliance with any financial
reporting requirement under the US securities laws.
Sales – We generally do not operate commission-based sales plans, unless aligned with local market practice and with appropriate safeguards to avoid
incentives incentivising inappropriate sales behaviours.
Identification – We identify individuals as MRTs based on qualitative and quantitative criteria set out in the PRA’s and FCA’s remuneration rules. Our
of MRTs identification process is underpinned by the following key principles:
– MRTs are identified at Group, HSBC Bank (consolidated) and HSBC UK Bank level.
– MRTs are also identified at other solo regulated entity level as required by the regulations.
– When identifying an MRT, HSBC considers a colleague’s role within its matrix management structure. The global business and function that
an individual works within takes precedence, followed by the geographical location in which they work.
– We also identify additional MRTs based on our own internal criteria, which include compensation thresholds and individuals in certain roles and
grades who otherwise would not be identified as MRTs under the remuneration rules.

[PAGE 307]

Summary of shareholder return and Group CEO remuneration
The graph shows HSBC TSR performance (based on the daily spot The single total figure remuneration for the Group CEO over the past
Return Index in sterling) against the FTSE 100 Total Return Index for 10 years, together with the outcomes of the respective
the 10-year period ended 31 December 2024. annual incentive and LTI awards, are presented in the following table.
The FTSE 100 Total Return Index has been chosen as a recognised
broad equity market index of which HSBC Holdings is a member.
HSBC TSR and FTSE 100 Total Return Index
300%
200%
100%
0%
Dec 2014 Dec 2015 Dec 2016 Dec 2017 Dec 2018 Dec 2019 Dec 2020 Dec 2021 Dec 2022 Dec 2023 Dec 2024
HSBC TSR FTSE 100 Total Return Index
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024
Stuart Stuart Stuart Stuart John John Sir Noel Sir Noel Sir Noel Sir Noel Sir Noel Sir Noel Georges
Group CEO
Gulliver Gulliver Gulliver Gulliver Flint Flint Quinn Quinn Quinn Quinn Quinn Quinn1,2 Elhedery2,3
Single total figure £0004 7,340 5,675 6,086 2,387 4,582 2,922 1,977 4,154 4,895 5,562 10,396 9,164 1,867
Annual incentive5 (% of
maximum) 45% 64% 80% 76% 76% 61% 66% 32% 57% 75% 70% 78% 78%
Long-term incentive5,6,7 (% of
maximum) 41% –% –% 100% –% –% –% –% –% –% 75% 75% —%
1 Sir Noel Quinn’s 2024 single total figure reflects his single total figure of remuneration and includes his total fixed pay, benefits and annual incentive up to and
including 1 September 2024 when he stepped down as Group CEO, plus his vesting 2022-2024 LTI.
2 The 2024 annual incentive figures for Sir Noel Quinn and Georges Elhedery reflect their assessment against the Group CEO scorecard for their periods as Group
CEO.
3 Georges Elhedery’s total single figure reflects his total fixed pay, annual incentive and benefits in respect of his period as Group CEO (for the period 2 September
2024 to 31 December 2024). Georges Elhedery’s vesting 2022-2024 LTI was granted before his appointment as Group CEO and has been excluded.
4 Sir Noel Quinn’s 2023 single total figure has been restated to reflect the value of the 2021-2023 LTI on 12 March 2024, when the first tranche of the award
vested.
5 The 2012 annual incentive figure for Stuart Gulliver included 60% of the annual incentive disclosed in the 2012 Directors’ remuneration report, which was
deferred for five years and subject to service conditions and satisfactory completion of the five-year deferred prosecution agreement with the US Department of
Justice, entered into in December 2012 (’AML DPA’) as determined by the Committee. The AML DPA performance condition was met and the award vested in
2018. The value of the award at vesting was in the 2018 single total figure of remuneration and included as long-term incentive for 2018.
6 Long-term incentive awards are included in the single total figure of remuneration for the year in which the performance period is deemed to be substantially
completed. For Group Performance Share Plan (’GPSP’) awards, this is the end of the financial year preceding the date of grant. The GPSP award shown in 2015
therefore relates to the award granted in 2016.
7 The GPSP was replaced by the LTI in 2016 and the value for GPSP is nil for 2016 as no GPSP award was made. LTI awards have a three-year performance period
and the first LTI award was made in February 2017. The value of the LTI awards expected to vest will be included in the total single total figure of remuneration
of the year in which the performance period ends.
Voting results from Annual General Meeting
2024 Annual General Meeting voting results
For Against Withheld
97.36% 2.64% ––
Remuneration report (votes cast)
9,581,517,143 259,382,421 7,973,872
Remuneration Committee discretion to set appropriate variable to fixed pay ratio(s) for 99.31% 0.69%
Material Risk Takers (votes cast) 9,760,585,369 67,898,883 20,437,945
95.73% 4.27% ––
Remuneration policy (votes cast from 2022 Annual General Meeting)
7,666,488,029 342,320,697 7,773,468
Corporate
governance

[PAGE 308]

Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report
Pay ratio
The following table shows the ratio between the total pay of the We are satisfied that the median pay ratio is consistent with the pay and
Group CEO and the lower quartile, median and upper quartile pay of progression policies for our UK workforce, taking into account the diverse
our UK employees. mix of our UK employees, the pay mix applicable to each role and our
objective of delivering market competitive pay for each role subject to
Total pay and benefits for the Group CEO reflects the total fixed pay,
Group, business and individual performance.
annual incentive and benefits for Sir Noel Quinn up to and including
1 September 2024 and for Georges Elhedery from 2 September 2024, Our ratios have been calculated using the option ‘A’ methodology
plus the value of Sir Noel Quinn’s vesting 2022-2024 long-term incentive prescribed under the UK Companies (Miscellaneous Reporting)
(’LTI’), which was awarded in respect of his performance as Group CEO Regulations 2018. Under this option, the ratios are calculated using full-
in 2021. The median ratio is stable year on year, reflecting that a LTI has time equivalent pay and benefits of all employees providing services in the
vested in each of the last two years with a similar scorecard outcome. UK at 31 December 2024. We believe this approach provides accurate
information and representation of the ratios. The ratio has been computed
Total pay ratio taking into account the pay and benefits of over 34,000 UK employees,
Lower Upper other than the Group CEOs. We calculated our pay quartiles and benefits
Method quartile Median quartile information for our UK employees using:
2024 A 283:1 165:1 87:1
20231 A 285:1 165:1 86:1 – full-time equivalent annualised fixed pay, which includes base salary
and allowances, at 31 December 2024;
2022 A 167:1 95:1 49:1
2021 A 154:1 90:1 46:1 – variable pay awards for 2024;
2020 A 139:1 85:1 43:1
– return on deferred cash awards granted in prior years. The deferred
2019 A 169:1 105:1 52:1
cash portion of the annual incentive granted in prior years includes a
Total pay and benefits amounts used to calculate the ratio right to receive notional returns for the period between the grant date
Lower quartile Median Upper quartile and vesting date, which is determined by reference to a rate of return
specified at the time of grant. A payment of notional return is made
Total Total Total
annually and the amount is disclosed on a paid basis in the year in
pay and Total pay and Total pay and Total
which the payment is made;
(£) Method benefits salary benefits salary benefits salary
2024 A 38,995 31,962 66,772 53,945 127,050 91,664 – gains realised from exercising awards from taxable employee share
2023 A 36,528 27,680 63,000 45,536 121,223 89,506 plans; and
2022 A 33,284 24,615 58,257 41,000 113,778 95,000 – full-time equivalent value of taxable benefits and pension contributions.
2021 A 31,727 27,666 54,678 41,500 106,951 84,000
2020 A 29,833 23,264 48,703 36,972 96,386 75,000 Full-time equivalent fixed pay and benefits for each employee have been
2019 A 28,920 24,235 46,593 41,905 93,365 72,840 calculated by using each employee’s data as at 31 December 2024.
Where an employee works part-time, fixed pay and benefits are grossed
1 The 2023 pay ratios have been restated to reflect the revised 2023 single up, where appropriate, to full-time equivalent. One-off benefits have not
total figure of remuneration for Sir Noel Quinn. been included in calculating the ratios as these are not permanent in
nature and in some cases, depending on individual circumstances, may
The total pay and benefits for the median employee for 2024 was not truly reflect a benefit to the employee.
£66,772, a 6.0% increase compared with 2023.
The reported ratios may not be comparable to our international and listed
Our UK workforce comprises a diverse mix of colleagues across different peers on the FTSE 100, given differences in business mix and size,
businesses and levels of seniority, from junior cashiers in our retail employment and compensation practices, methodologies for computing
branches to senior executives managing our global business units. We pay ratios and assumptions used by companies.
aim to deliver market-competitive pay for each role, taking into
consideration the skills and experience required for the business. Relative importance of spend on pay
Pay structure varies across roles in order to deliver an appropriate mix of The following chart shows the change in:
fixed and variable pay. Junior colleagues have a greater portion of their
pay delivered in a fixed component, which does not vary with – total employee pay between 2023 and 2024; and
performance and allows them to predictably meet their day-to-day needs. – dividends and share buy-backs in respect of 2023 and 2024.
Our senior management, including executive Directors, generally have a
higher portion of their total remuneration opportunity structured as In 2024, total spend on pay was stable compared with 2023. The total
variable pay and linked to the performance of the Group, given their role return to shareholders increased by 43% compared with 2023. This
and ability to influence the strategy and performance of the Group. included the special dividend of $0.21 per share that was paid in June
Executive Directors also have a higher proportion of their variable pay following the completion of the sale of our banking business in Canada,
delivered in shares, which vest over a period of seven years with a post- as well as $11bn of capital return to shareholders through share buy-
vesting retention period of one year. During this deferral and retention backs, which included the up to $2bn buy-back announced at our 2023
period, the awards are linked to the share price so the value of award annual results in February 2024. In addition, the Group has announced
realised by them after the vesting and retention period will be aligned to the intention to initiate a further buy-back of up to $2bn. Dividends
the performance of the Group. include an approximation of the amount payable in April 2025 in relation
to the fourth interim dividend of $0.36 per ordinary share.
Relative importance of spend on pay
Total return 2024 $15.9bn $11.0bn $26.9bn
to ▲ 43%
shareholder 2023 $11.8bn $7.0bn $18.8bn
2024 $18.5bn
Employee
▲
pay 1%
2023 $18.2bn
Dividends Share buy-back Employee Pay

[PAGE 309]

Comparison of Directors’ and employees’ pay
The following table compares the changes in each Director’s base based on time served by them on the Board and the relevant Board
salary, taxable benefits and annual incentive between 2020 and 2024 committees and any additional responsibilities taken on by the non-
with the percentage change in each of those elements of pay for UK- executive Director during each year. The value of benefits received by
based employees of HSBC Group Management Services Limited, the the non-executive Directors reflect the taxable expense
employing entity of the executive Directors. reimbursements claimed, and the associated gross-up tax, in relation
to attending the Board meetings in each year. Page 313 provides the
The non-executive Director fees were increased in 2024. The year-on-
underlying single total figure of remuneration for non-executive
year percentage change in fees noted in the table below is primarily
Directors used to calculate these figures.
driven by any pro-rated fees received by the non-executive Director
Annual percentage change in remuneration
Base salary/fees Benefits Annual incentive
Director/employees 2024 2023 2022 2021 2020 2024 2023 2022 2021 2020 2024 2023 2022 2021 2020
Executive Directors
Sir Noel Quinn1,2,3 (31.6) 0.5 3.2 1.7 151.7 (47.8) 6.7 25.3 (48.9) 353.7 (23.7) (6.7) 36.1 99.0 20.2
Georges Elhedery4 26.7 — — — — 866.0 — — — — 30.3 — — — —
Non-executive Directors
Geraldine Buckingham5 10.7 57.4 — — — (40.0) — — — — — — — — —
Rachel Duan6,7 4.5 8.4 235.8 — — — (100.0) — — — — — — — —
Dame Carolyn Fairbairn7,8 4.7 5.3 231.1 — — — (100.0) — — — — — — — —
James Forese9 5.5 10.2 20.5 257.5 — 300.0 — — — — — — — — —
Ann Godbehere10 472.1 — — — — — — — — — — — — — —
Steven Guggenheimer11 (1.9) 0.8 4.8 86.6 — 300.0 (90.0) — — — — — — — —
José Antonio Meade
Kuribreña12 3.7 0.8 8.5 10.4 28.7 75.0 (71.4) — (100.0) 100.0 — — — — —
Kalpana Morparia13 45.9 — — — — — — — — — — — — — —
Eileen Murray14,15 14.1 10.7 (1.5) 121.7 — (100.0) — — — — — — — — —
Brendan Nelson16 306.2 — — — — 216.7 — — — — — — — — —
David Nish17 (66.8) 0.4 (1.0) 0.4 108.7 57.9 (13.6) 120.0 25.0 (50.0) — — — — —
Swee Lian Teo18 402.0 — — — — — — — — — — — — — —
Sir Mark Tucker — — — — — 184.3 (54.9) 242.4 (36.5) (77.5) — — — — —
Employee group19 3.3 5.0 3.1 1.0 2.0 4.1 5.7 7.0 1.3 2.3 2.4 11.7 3.7 25.2 (20.0)
1 Sir Noel Quinn succeeded John Flint as interim Group CEO with effect from 5 August 2019 and was appointed permanently into the role on 17 March 2020. The
annual percentage change in 2020 for Sir Noel Quinn is based on remuneration reported in his 2019 single total figure of remuneration (for the period 5 August
2019 to 31 December 2019) and his 2020 single total figure of remuneration (for the period 1 January 2020 to 31 December 2020). Based on his annualised 2019
compensation as an executive Director, his percentage change in salary, benefits and annual incentive was 2.1%, 85.2% and -50.9%, respectively for 2020.
2 Sir Noel Quinn voluntarily waived the cash portion of his 2020 annual incentive. The year-on-year percentage change between 2020 and 2021 would be -1%
without this cash waiver.
3 Sir Noel Quinn stepped down as Group CEO and as an executive Director of the Board with effect from 2 September 2024. The annual percentage change in
2024 for Sir Noel Quinn is based on remuneration reported in his 2024 single total figure of remuneration (for the period 1 January 2024 to 1 September 2024).
Based on his annualised 2024 compensation as an executive Director, his percentage change in salary, benefits and annual incentive was 3.0%, -22.4% and
14.1% respectively for 2024.
4 Georges Elhedery succeeded Ewen Stevenson as Group CFO with effect from 1 January 2023, and succeeded Sir Noel Quinn as Group CEO with effect from
2 September 2024. The annual percentage change in 2024 for Georges Elhedery is based on remuneration reported in his 2024 single total figure of
remuneration, which reflects compensation as both Group CFO and Group CEO during 2024.
5 Geraldine Buckingham stepped down as a member of the Group Risk Committee on 1 October 2024 and was appointed as a member of the Group Audit
Committee and Chair of the Sustainability Working Group on 1 October 2024.
6 Rachel Duan was appointed as a member of the Group Audit Committee on 1 June 2022.
7 Rachel Duan and Dame Carolyn Fairbairn did not receive taxable benefits in 2023, resulting in a 100% reduction in benefits from the prior year.
8 Dame Carolyn Fairbairn was appointed as Chair of the Group Remuneration Committee effective 29 April 2022.
9 James Forese was appointed as non-executive Chair of HSBC North America Holdings, Inc in 2021. He was appointed as a member of the Sustainability Working
Group on 1 October 2024.
10 Ann Godbehere was appointed as a member of the Group Audit Committee on 21 February 2024 and as a member of the Sustainability Working Group on 1
October 2024. She was also appointed as Senior Independent Director on 3 May 2024.
11 Steven Guggenheimer joined the Board on 1 May 2020. He stepped down as a Co-Chair of the Technology Governance Working Group on 1 March 2024 and
was appointed as a member of the Group Technology Committee on 1 March 2024.
12 José Antonio Meade Kuribreña did not receive taxable benefits in 2021, resulting in a 100% reduction in benefits from the prior year.
13 Kalpana Morparia joined the Board on 1 March 2023. She was appointed as a member of the Group Technology Committee on 1 March 2024 and Group
Remuneration Committee on 1 October 2024. Kalpana Morparia stepped down as a member of Group Risk Committee on 1 October 2024.
14 Eileen Murray was appointed as a member of the Group Audit Committee on 1 June 2022. She stepped down as the Co-Chair of the Technology Governance
Working Group Committee and was appointed as the Chair of the Group Technology Committee on 1 March 2024. Eileen Murray stepped down as a member of
the Group Audit Committee and was appointed as a member of the Group Risk Committee on 1 October 2024.
15 Eileen Murray did not receive taxable benefits in 2024, resulting in a 100% reduction in benefits from the prior year.
16 Brendan Nelson was appointed as Chair of the Group Audit Committee on 21 February 2024. He was appointed as a member of the Group Technology
Committee on 1 March 2024 and the Sustainability Working Group on 1 October 2024.
17 David Nish retired from the Board effective 3 May 2024.
18 Swee Lian Teo was appointed as a member of the Group Technology Committee on 1 March 2024 and the Sustainability Working Group on 1 October 2024.
19 Employee group consists of individuals employed by HSBC Group Management Services Ltd, the employing entity of the executive Directors, as no individuals
are employed directly by HSBC Holdings.
Corporate
governance

[PAGE 310]

Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report
Scheme interests awarded during 2024
(Audited)
The table below sets out the scheme interests granted to executive Directors during 2024 in respect of the 2023 performance year, as
disclosed in the 2023 Directors’ remuneration report. No non-executive Directors received scheme interests during the financial year. The below
table includes details of immediate shares and fixed pay allowances in compliance with Chapter 17 of the Rules Governing the Listing of
Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited.
Scheme awards in 2024
(Audited)
Face Percentage
value receivable for Number of End of
Type of interest Basis on which awarded minimum shares performance
awarded award made Date of award £000 performance awarded period
Sir Noel Quinn LTI deferred shares1 % of base salary 26 February 2024 5,822 25 974,853 31 December 2026
Immediate shares2 % of base salary 26 February 2024 1,009 N/A 168,955 31 December 2023
8 May 2024 300 N/A 42,146 N/A
Fixed pay allowance3 N/A 15 August 2024 300 N/A 46,219 N/A
5 November 2024 300 N/A 41,846 N/A
Georges Elhedery LTI deferred shares1 % of base salary 26 February 2024 3,399 25 569,177 31 December 2026
Immediate shares2 % of base salary 26 February 2024 643 N/A 107,752 31 December 2023
8 May 2024 192 N/A 26,899 N/A
Fixed pay allowance3 N/A 15 August 2024 192 N/A 29,498 N/A
5 November 2024 299 N/A 41,720 N/A
1 In accordance with the remuneration policy approved by shareholders at the 2022 AGM, the LTI award was determined at 320% of base salary for Sir Noel
Quinn and 320% of base salary for Georges Elhedery. The number of shares to be granted was determined by taking HSBC’s closing share price of £5.972 taken
on 23 February 2024, and applying a discount based on HSBC’s expected dividend yield of 6.25% per annum for the vesting period (£4.385). The fair value of the
awards was £2.028 based on IFRS 2 accounting standards. LTI awards are conditional share awards subject to a three-year forward-looking performance period
and vest in five equal annual instalments, between the third and seventh anniversary of the award date, subject to performance achieved. Awards are subject to
clawback for a maximum period of 10 years from the date of the award and are not eligible for dividend equivalents.
2 Immediate share awards are granted based on the previous years’ performance as part of the annual incentive and are not subject to forward-looking
performance conditions. On vesting, awards will be subject to a one-year retention period. The face values of the immediate share awards have been computed
using HSBC’s closing share price of £5.972 taken on 23 February 2024. The fair value of the awards was £5.957 based on IFRS 2 accounting standards. Awards
are subject to clawback for a maximum period of 10 years from the date of the award.
3 Fixed pay allowance awards are granted in instalments in accordance with the remuneration policy approved by shareholders at the 2022 AGM, and are not
subject to forward-looking performance conditions. Individual tax liabilities were satisfied in cash, therefore the face value awarded represents the net of tax
value of the shares and the number of shares awarded reflects the net of tax number of shares. The fixed pay allowance awards have been computed using
HSBC’s closing share price of £7.126 taken on 7 May 2024, £6.498 taken on 14 August 2024 and £7.177 taken on 4 November 2024. The fair values of these
awards are based on IFRS 2 accounting standards and are £7.208, £6.558 and £7.224 respectively. These awards vest immediately and are subject to a retention
period and released annually on pro-rata basis over five years, starting in March 2025.
Performance conditions for the 2024–2026 LTI awards
(Audited)
Minimum Target Maximum
Measures (weighting)1 (25% payout) (50% payout) (100% payout)
RoTE with CET1 capital ratio underpin2 (37.5%) 14.0% 16.0% 17.0%
Carbon reduction
66.0% 70.0% 74.0%
Environment and sustainability3 (own emissions)
(25%) Sustainable finance and
$539.0bn $641.0bn $693.0bn
investment
Relative TSR4 (37.5%) At median of the Straight-line vesting between At upper quartile of
peer group minimum and maximum peer group
Subject to risk and compliance modifier
The Group Remuneration Committee retains the discretion to revise down the formulaic outcome taking into account performance against risk and compliance
factors during the performance period.
1 Awards will vest on a straight-line basis for performance between the minimum, target and maximum levels of performance set in this table.
2 To be assessed based on RoTE at the end of the performance period, subject to the CET1 capital ratio underpin.
3 Carbon reduction will be measured based on percentage reduction in total energy and travel emissions achieved by 31 December 2026 using 2019 as the
baseline. The sustainable finance and investment measure will assess the cumulative amount provided and facilitated over the period ending 31 December 2026.
4 The peer group for the 2024–2026 award is: Bank of China (Hong Kong), Barclays, BNP Paribas, China Merchants Bank, Citigroup, DBS Group Holdings,
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co., Lloyds Banking Group, OCBC Bank, Standard Chartered and UBS Group.

[PAGE 311]

Other scheme interests held during 2024
The table below details scheme interests held by executive Directors during 2024, in respect of prior performance years. Vesting of deferred
share awards is normally subject to the Director remaining an employee on the vesting date. The awards may vest at an earlier date in some
circumstances. Under the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong, interests in conditional share awards are categorised as the interests
of the beneficial owner.
Other scheme interests in 2024
HSBC Holdings ordinary shares
Type of Dates of Award Usually vesting At 1 Jan Vested in Lapsed in Cancelled in At 31 Dec
interest held award price (£)1 from to 2024 period period period 2024
Sir Noel 1 Mar 2021 4.262 1 Mar 2024 31 Mar 2028 1,118,554 167,7822 279,639 — 671,133
LTI deferred
Quinn 28 Feb 2022 5.380 1 Mar 2025 31 Mar 2029 983,339 — — — 983,339
shares
27 Feb 2023 6.357 1 Mar 2026 31 Mar 2030 861,422 — — — 861,422
27 Feb 20173 6.503 1 Mar 2020 31 Mar 2024 19,886 20,6984 — — —
Deferred 26 Feb 20185 7.234 1 Mar 2021 31 Mar 2025 43,011 21,504 — — 21,507
shares 25 Feb 20196 6.235 1 Mar 2022 31 Mar 2026 84,351 28,117 — — 56,234
24 Feb 20207 5.622 1 Mar 2023 31 Mar 2027 161,362 40,340 — — 121,022
Georges LTI deferred 28 Feb 2022 5.380 1 Mar 2025 31 Mar 2029 223,989 — — — 223,989
Elhedery shares 27 Feb 2023 6.357 1 Mar 2026 31 Mar 2030 251,474 — — — 251,474
25 Feb 20198 6.235 1 Mar 2020 31 Mar 2024 17,193 17,193 — — —
Deferred 24 Feb 20207 5.622 1 Mar 2023 31 Mar 2027 118,129 29,532 — — 88,597
shares 1 Mar 20219 4.262 1 Mar 2024 31 Mar 2028 305,523 61,104 — — 244,419
28 Feb 202210 5.380 1 Mar 2025 31 Mar 2029 273,163 — — — 273,163
1 The award price is the closing price on the day before the grant date. In all cases the purchase price is nil.
2 The performance conditions were assessed and confirmed at 75%. The remaining 25% of the award was forfeited. Shares equivalent in number to those that
vest under the award (net of tax liabilities) must be retained for one year from the vesting date. The award vests in five equal tranches commencing in 2024. The
first tranche vested on 12 March 2024 at a market value of £5.8992. The closing price of the shares immediately before the date on which the awards were
vested was £5.758.
3 The award vested in five equal annual tranches. The final tranche vested on 11 March 2024 at a market value of £5.7534. Shares equivalent in number to those
that vest under the award (net of tax liabilities) must be retained for six months from the vesting date. The closing price of the shares immediately before the
date on which the awards were vested was £5.799.
4 The quantity vested included 812 dividend equivalents allocated in respect of the Q4 2023 dividend.
5 Shares equivalent in number to those that vest under the award (net of tax liabilities) must be retained for one year from the vesting date. The award will vest in
five equal annual tranches. The fourth tranche vested on 12 March 2024 at a market value of £5.8992. The closing price of the shares immediately before the
date on which the awards were vested was £5.758.
6 Shares equivalent in number to those that vest under the award (net of tax liabilities) must be retained for one year from the vesting date. The award will vest in
five equal annual tranches. The third tranche vested on 11 March 2024 at a market value of £5.7534. The closing price of the shares immediately before the date
on which the awards were vested was £5.799.
7 Shares equivalent in number to those that vest under the award (net of tax liabilities) must be retained for one year from the vesting date. The award will vest in
five equal annual tranches. The second tranche vested on 11 March 2024 at a market value of £5.7534. The closing price of the shares immediately before the
date on which the awards were vested was £5.799.
8 Shares equivalent in number to those that vest under the award (net of tax liabilities) must be retained for six months from the vesting date. The award vested in
five equal annual tranches. The final tranche vested on 11 March 2024 at a market value of £5.7534. The closing price of the shares immediately before the date
on which the awards were vested was £5.799.
9 Shares equivalent in number to those that vest under the award (net of tax liabilities) must be retained for one year from the vesting date. The award will vest in
five equal annual tranches. The first tranche vested on 12 March 2024 at a market value of £5.8992. The closing price of the shares immediately before the date
on which the awards were vested was £5.758.
10 The award will vest in five equal annual tranches commencing in 2025. Shares equivalent in number to those that vest under the award (net of tax liabilities)
must be retained for one year from the vesting date.
No Directors held any short position (as defined in the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong) in the shares or debentures of HSBC
Holdings and its associated corporations. Save as stated in the tables above, none of the Directors had an interest in any shares or debentures
of HSBC Holdings or any associates at the beginning or at the end of the period, and none of the Directors or members of their immediate
families were awarded or exercised any right to subscribe for any shares or debentures in any HSBC corporation during the period.
There have been no changes in the shares or debentures of the Directors from 31 December 2024 to the date of this report.
Corporate
governance

[PAGE 312]

Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report
Executive Directors’ interests in shares
(Audited)
The shareholdings of executive Directors in 2024, including the ensuring there is ongoing alignment of executive Directors’ interests
shareholdings of their connected persons, at 31 December 2024 (or with shareholder experience post-cessation of their employment due
the date they stepped down from the Board, if earlier) are set out to the following features of the policy:
below. The following table shows the comparison of shareholdings
– Shares delivered to executive Directors as part of the fixed pay
with the company shareholding guidelines. There have been no
allowance have a five-year retention period, which continues to
changes in the shareholdings of the executive Directors from
apply following a departure of an executive Director.
31 December 2024 to the date of this report.
– Shares delivered as part of an annual incentive award are subject
Individuals have five years from their appointment date to build up the to a one-year retention period, which continues to apply following
recommended levels of shareholding. In line with investor guidance, a departure of an executive Director.
for executive Directors, unvested shares that are not subject to
– LTI awards have a seven-year vesting period with a one-year post-
forward-looking performance conditions (on a net of tax basis) can
vesting retention period, which is not accelerated on departure.
count towards their shareholding requirement under the shareholder-
approved policy. The weighted average holding period of an LTI award within HSBC is
therefore six years, in excess of the five-year holding period typically
The Committee reviews compliance with the shareholding
implemented by FTSE-listed companies.
requirement, taking into account shareholder expectations and
guidelines. The Committee also has full discretion in determining any HSBC operates a policy under which individuals are not permitted to
penalties for non-compliance. enter into any personal hedging strategies in relation to HSBC shares
subject to a vesting and/or retention period.
With regard to post-employment shareholding arrangements, we
believe that our remuneration structure achieves the objective of
Shares
(Audited)
At 31 Dec 2024, or date stepped down from the Board if earlier
Scheme interests
Shareholding at
Shares awarded subject to deferral1
31 Dec 20242 or Share
Shareholding date stepped interests without with
guidelines down (number Share performance performance
(% of salary) (% of salary) of shares) options3 conditions conditions4
Executive Directors
Sir Noel Quinn5 (stepped down from 2
September 2024) 400% 1,068% 2,046,949 — 869,896 2,819,614
Georges Elhedery5 (appointed as Group
CEO from 2 September 2024) 400% 504% 966,017 — 606,179 1,044,640
1 The gross number of shares is disclosed. A portion will be sold at vesting to cover any income tax and social security that falls due at the time of vesting.
2 The value of the shareholding is calculated using an average of the daily closing share prices in the three months to 31 December 2024 (£7.184), and does not
include any unvested interests.
3 At 31 December 2024, Sir Noel Quinn and Georges Elhedery did not hold any options under the HSBC Holdings Savings-Related Share Option Plan (UK).
4 LTI awards granted in February 2022, 2023 and 2024 are subject to the performance conditions as set out in the preceding sections.
5 Executive Directors are expected to meet their shareholding guidelines within five years of the date of their appointment.
Total pension entitlements External appointments
(Audited) During 2024, executive Directors did not receive any fees from
No employees who served as executive Directors during the year external appointments.
have a right to amounts under any HSBC final salary pension scheme
Payments for loss of office
for their services as executive Directors or are entitled to additional
benefits in the event of early retirement. There is no retirement age
(Audited)
set for Directors, but the normal retirement age for colleagues is 65.
Departure terms for Sir Noel Quinn
Payments to past Directors
Sir Noel Quinn is leaving the Group on 30 April 2025. He will continue
to receive his salary, Fixed Pay Allowance (’FPA’), cash in lieu of
(Audited)
pension allowance and other benefits up to (and including) his
retirement date in the normal way. The aggregate value of these
and Accounts 2022, Ewen Stevenson was granted good leaver status.
payments from 2 September 2024 to 31 December 2024 was
Ewen Stevenson is eligible to receive vesting of the 2022–2024 LTI
£1,147,055 and comprised a salary of £454,844, a FPA of £562,019,
award, pro-rated for time in employment subject to satisfaction of
cash in lieu of pension allowance of £45,484 and benefits totalling
non-compete provisions under which he cannot undertake a role with
£84,707, which includes Group Income Protection, a contribution
a defined list of competitor financial services firms for 12 months
towards Sir Noel Quinn's legal fees incurred in connection with his
after his employment ceases with HSBC. Details of the 2022–2024
departure arrangements and other benefits in connection with his
LTI outcome are outlined on page 298.
retirement. Sir Noel Quinn will also receive cash in lieu of unused
No other payments were made to, or in respect of, former Directors holiday on expiry of his notice period. The fixed pay allowance will be
in the year in excess of the minimum threshold of £50,000 set for this awarded in immediately vested shares, be subject to a retention
purpose. period and released on a pro-rata basis over five years.
Sir Noel Quinn will not be eligible for an LTI award in respect of the
2024 performance year, or any annual incentive award in respect of
the 2025 performance year. In accordance with the contractual terms

[PAGE 313]

agreed and our approved Directors’ remuneration policy, Sir Noel achievement of the required performance conditions. For this
Quinn was granted good leaver status in respect of his outstanding purpose, his 2022 and 2023 LTI awards have been pro-rated for time
unvested share awards. Good leaver status is conditional upon him with the maximum number of shares, being 669,995 and 433,268
not taking up a role with a defined list of competitor financial services respectively, still subject to performance.
firms for a year from his departure date. As a good leaver, his
Sir Noel Quinn will be eligible to receive certain post-departure
deferred share awards will continue to vest and be released on their
benefits for a period of up to seven years after the departure date. Sir
scheduled vesting dates, subject to the relevant terms (including post-
Noel Quinn will receive no other compensation or payment for the
vesting retention periods, malus and, where applicable, clawback).
termination of his service agreement or his ceasing to be a Director of
Any vesting of his LTI awards will be pro-rated for the period up to the
the Group.
departure date and will be subject to the relevant terms (including
post-vesting retention periods, malus and clawback) and the
Directors’ emoluments
The details of compensation paid to executive and non-executive Directors for the year ended 31 December 2024 are set out below:
Emoluments
Sir Noel Quinn Georges Elhedery Non-executive Directors1
2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Directors' base salary, allowances and benefits in kind 2,270 3,386 2,473 1,999
Non-executive Directors' fees and benefits in kind 5,583 4,769
Pension contributions — — — — — —
Performance-related pay paid or receivable2,3 1,540 6,293 10,677 3,783 — —
Inducements to join paid or receivable — — — — — —
Compensation for loss of office 1,147 — — — — —
Notional return on deferred cash 56 43 8 6 — —
Total 5,013 9,722 13,157 5,788 5,583 4,769
Total ($000) 6,406 12,424 16,814 7,397 7,135 6,095
1 Fees and benefits in kind for 2024 reflects the population as per the single total figure table for non-executive Directors, which excludes individuals who have
stepped down from the Board during 2024.
2 Includes the value of the deferred and LTI awards at grant.
3 The 2024 value of performance-related pay paid or receivable for Georges Elhedery includes the proposed 2025-2027 LTI award under the new executive
Director remuneration policy, which is subject to shareholder approval at the 2025 AGM.
The aggregate amount of Directors’ emoluments (including both executive Directors and non-executive Directors) for the year ended
31 December 2024 was $30,355,377. The aggregate value of Director retirement benefits for current Directors is nil.
As per our policy, benefits in kind may include, but are not limited to, the provision of medical insurance, income protection insurance, health
assessment, life assurance, club membership, tax assistance, car benefit, travel assistance, provision of company owned-accommodation and
relocation costs (including any tax due, where applicable).
The details of compensation paid to former executive Directors for the year ended 31 December 2024 are set out below:
Emoluments to former executive Directors
Douglas Flint Stuart Gulliver John Flint Marc Moses
£ $ £ $ £ $ £ $
Post-employment medical insurance benefits 8,018 10,246 8,018 10,246 12,161 15,541 18,950 24,217
Tax return support — — — — — — 2,500 3,195
1 Amounts are converted into US dollars based on the average exchange rates for the year.
The total aggregate value of benefits provided to former executive Directors in 2024 was £49,646 ($63,444). There were payments under
retirement benefit arrangements to four former Directors of £3,225,964.
We note an additional retirement benefit payment made in 2023 to a former Director of £1,038,863. This means payments under retirement
benefit arrangements for 2023 were made to four former Directors, totalling £2,420,537.
The provision at 31 December 2024 in respect of unfunded pension obligations to two former Directors amounted to £352,441. This relates to
unfunded unapproved retirement benefits schemes.
Corporate
governance

[PAGE 314]

Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report
Emoluments of senior management and five highest paid employees
The following tables set out the emoluments paid to senior management, which in this case comprises executive Directors and members of the
Group Executive Committee, for the year ended 31 December 2024, or for the period of appointment in 2024 as a Director or member of the
Group Executive Committee. Details of the remuneration paid and share awards granted to the five highest paid employees, comprising
Georges Elhedery, Pam Kaur and three other members of the Group Executive Committee for the year ended 31 December 2024, are also
presented.
Five highest paid employees – share awards (HSBC Share Plan 2011)
HSBC Holdings ordinary share awards
Award Usually vesting At 1 Jan Granted in Vested in Lapsed Cancelled in
Dates of award price (£)1 from to 2024 period period2 in period period At 31 Dec 2024
2017 to 2023 — 1 Mar 2024 30 Mar 2030 4,290,807 — 478,332 — — 3,812,475
26 Feb 20243 5.972 26 Feb 2024 30 Mar 2031 — 2,064,764 568,482 — — 1,496,282
18 Mar 20244 5.980 18 Mar 2024 30 Mar 2028 — 313,085 113,864 — — 199,221
8 May 20245 7.126 8 May 2024 30 Mar 2027 — 1,012,813 332,397 — — 680,416
15 Aug 20246 6.498 15 Aug 2024 15 Aug 2024 — 29,498 29,498 — — —
5 Nov 20247 7.177 5 Nov 2024 5 Nov 2024 — 41,720 41,720 — — —
1 Jan to 31 Dec 20248 — 1 Mar 2024 30 Mar 2024 — 5,269 5,269 — — —
4,290,807 3,467,149 1,569,562 — — 6,188,394
1 The award price is the closing price on the day before the grant date. In all cases the purchase price is nil.
2 The weighted average closing price of the shares immediately before the dates on which the awards were vested was £6.2037.
3 The fair values of the awards were calculated according to the IFRS 2 accounting standard. The fair values, which vary based on the length of the vesting period,
range between £2.028 and £5.957. These awards include LTI awards and other awards which are subject to satisfaction of performance conditions. LTI awards
4 The fair values of the awards were calculated according to the IFRS 2 accounting standard. The fair values, which vary based on the length of the vesting period,
range between £5.165 and £5.789.
5 The fair values of the awards were calculated according to the IFRS 2 accounting standard. The fair values, which vary based on the length of the vesting period,
range between £6.823 and £7.208.
6 The fair values of the awards were calculated according to the IFRS 2 accounting standard. The fair value of the award was £6.558.
7 The fair values of the awards were calculated according to the IFRS 2 accounting standard. The fair value of the award was £7.224.
8 Relates to the allocation of dividend equivalent shares in relation to eligible awards.
Emoluments
£000s Five highest paid employees Senior management
Basic salaries, allowances and benefits in kind 10,688 37,990
Pension contributions 9 656
Performance-related pay paid or receivable1 33,459 58,290
Inducements to join paid or receivable — —
Compensation for loss of office2 — 2,221
Total 44,156 99,157
Total ($000) 56,429 126,717
1 Includes the value of deferred share awards at grant.
2 Excludes expected payments in 2025 in connection with loss of office for senior management in 2024.
Emoluments by bands
Hong Kong dollars US dollars Number of highest paid employees Number of senior management
$5,500,001 – $6,000,000 $704,877 – $768,956 — 2
$8,000,001 – $8,500,000 $1,025,275 – $1,089,355 — 1
$20,000,001 – $20,500,000 $2,563,187 – $2,627,267 — 3
$21,000,001 – $21,500,000 $2,691,347 – $2,755,426 — 1
$29,500,001 – $30,000,000 $3,780,701 – $3,844,781 — 1
$33,000,001 – $33,500,000 $4,229,259 – $4,293,339 — 1
$34,500,001 – $35,000,000 $4,421,498 – $4,485,578 — 1
$35,000,001 – $35,500,000 $4,485,578 – $4,549,658 — 1
$37,000,001 – $37,500,000 $4,741,897 – $4,805,976 — 1
$40,000,001 – $40,500,000 $5,126,375 – $5,190,454 — 1
$44,000,001 – $44,500,000 $5,639,012 – $5,703,092 — 1
$47,500,001 – $48,000,000 $6,087,570 – $6,151,650 — 1
$49,000,001 – $49,500,000 $6,279,809 – $6,343,889 — 2
$50,500,001 – $51,000,000 $6,472,048 – $6,536,128 — 1
$57,000,001 – $57,500,000 $7,305,084 – $7,369,164 1 2
$76,500,001 – $77,000,000 $9,804,192 – $9,868,271 1 —
$83,000,001 – $83,500,000 $10,637,228 – $10,701,307 1 1
$107,000,001 – $107,500,000 $13,713,053 – $13,777,132 1 1
$131,000,001 – $131,500,000 $16,788,877 – $16,852,957 1 1

[PAGE 315]

Non-executive Directors
(Audited)
The following table shows the total fees and benefits of non-executive Directors for 2024, together with comparative figures for 2023.
Fees and benefits
(Audited) Fees1 Benefits2 Total
(£000) 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023
Geraldine Buckingham3 270 244 3 5 273 249
Rachel Duan 255 244 3 — 258 244
Dame Carolyn Fairbairn 292 279 5 — 297 279
James Forese4 801 759 4 1 805 760
Ann Godbehere5 389 68 — — 389 68
Steven Guggenheimer6 259 264 4 1 263 265
José Antonio Meade Kuribreña 253 244 7 4 260 248
Kalpana Morparia7 248 170 1 — 249 170
Eileen Murray8 331 290 — 3 331 293
Brendan Nelson9 329 81 38 12 367 93
David Nish10 159 479 30 19 189 498
Swee Lian Teo11 256 51 — — 256 51
Sir Mark Tucker 1,500 1,500 145 51 1,645 1,551
Total (£000) 5,343 4,673 240 96 5,583 4,769
Total ($000) 6,828 5,972 307 123 7,135 6,095
1 Fees are in line with the Directors’ remuneration policy. There was a 5% increase in fees for Director fees, Group Risk Committee Member, Group Audit
Committee Chair and Member, Remuneration Committee Chair and Member, Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee Member and Group Technology
Committee Chair and Member).
2 Benefits include taxable expenses such as accommodation, travel and subsistence relating to attendance at Board and other meetings at HSBC Holdings’
registered offices. Amounts disclosed have been grossed up using a tax rate of 45%, where relevant.
3 Stepped down as a member of the Group Risk Committee and joined the Group Audit Committee as member on 1 October 2024. Appointed as Chair of the
Sustainability Working Group on 1 October 2024.
4 Appointed as a member of the Sustainability Working Group on 1 October 2024. Includes fee of £430,000 (2023: £443,000) in relation to his role as Chair of
HSBC North America Holdings, Inc.
5 Appointed as a member of the Group Audit Committee on 21 February 2024 and the Sustainability Working Group on 1 October 2024. Appointed as Senior
Independent Director on 3 May 2024.
6 Stepped down as a member of the Technology Governance Working Group on 1 March 2024. Appointed as a member of the Group Technology Committee on
1 March 2024.
7 Appointed as a member of the Group Technology Committee on 1 March 2024. Stepped down as a member of Group Risk Committee on 1 October 2024 and
joined the Group Remuneration Committee on 1 October 2024.
8 Stepped down as the Co-Chair of the Technology Governance Working Group Committee on 1 March 2024 and as the member of the Group Audit Committee
on 1 October 2024. Appointed as the Chair of the Group Technology Committee on 1 March 2024 and as a member of the Group Risk Committee on 1 October
2024.
9 Appointed as Chair of the Group Audit Committee on 21 February 2024. Appointed as member of the Group Technology Committee on 1 March 2024 and
Sustainability Working Group on 1 October 2024.
10 Retired from the Board at the conclusion of the 2024 AGM on 3 May 2024.
11 Appointed as member of the Group Technology Committee on 1 March 2024 and the Sustainability Working Group on 1 October 2024.
Corporate
governance

[PAGE 316]

Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report
Non-executive Directors’ interests in shares
(Audited)
The shareholdings of persons who were non-executive Directors in Non-executive Directors are expected to meet the shareholding
2024, including the shareholdings of their connected persons, at guidelines of 15,000 shares within five years of the date of their
31 December 2024, or date of cessation as a Director if earlier, are appointment. All non-executive Directors who had been appointed for
set out below. There have been no changes in the shareholdings of five years or more at 31 December 2024 met the guidelines.
the non-executive Directors from 31 December 2024 to the date of
this report.
Shares
Shareholding
guidelines (number Share interests
of shares) (number of shares)
Geraldine Buckingham 15,000 15,000
Rachel Duan 15,000 15,000
Dame Carolyn Fairbairn 15,000 15,000
James Forese 15,000 115,000
Ann Godbehere 15,000 15,000
Steven Guggenheimer 15,000 15,000
José Antonio Meade Kuribreña 15,000 15,000
Kalpana Morparia 15,000 15,000
Eileen Murray 15,000 75,000
Brendan Nelson 15,000 15,000
David Nish (retired on 3 May 2024) 15,000 50,000
Swee Lian Teo 15,000 15,200
Sir Mark Tucker 15,000 307,352
2025 fees for non-executive Directors
The table below sets out the 2025 fees for non-executive Directors. The fees paid to non-executive Directors who are standing for election or
re-election as members of Board Committees are set out in the table below (these Board Committees’ fees and Board fees are pro-rated for
part year service where relevant).
2025 fees
Position £
Non-executive Group Chairman1 1,500,000
Non-executive Director (base fee) 136,500
Senior Independent Director 200,000
Group Risk Committee Chair 150,000
Member 50,000
Group Audit Committee, Group Remuneration Committee and Group Technology Committee Chair 125,000
Member 50,000
Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee Chair ––
Member 34,650
Sustainability Working Group Chair 60,000
Member 30,000
Designated workforce engagement non-executive Director 50,000
1 The Group Chairman does not receive a base fee or any other fee in respect of chairing of the Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee.
The Board has reviewed the fees payable to non-executive Directors in the context of changes to the organisational structure. Following this
review, the Board considered that the fees payable for chairing or being a member of a Board Committee (excluding the Nomination &
Corporate Governance Committee) should be increased to recognise the responsibilities and additional time commitment associated with such
a role. Overall, giving due consideration to the highly regulated and complex industry in which HSBC operates, the Board agreed to align the
additional fee payable for chairing a Board Committee at £150,000 per annum (i.e., in line with the current fee for chairing the Group Risk
Committee). The increase in the fee for chairing a Board Committee will be phased over two years, with an increase to £125,000 per annum for
2025, and a further increase to £150,000 per annum with effect from 1 January 2026.
The Board also agreed increases to the additional fee for being a member of a Board Committee, and for the role of designated non-executive
Director for workforce engagement, which were both increased to £50,000 per annum. These increases reflect the additional activity being
undertaken during this period of organisational and cultural change.
No other changes are proposed to non-executive Director fees for 2025.

[PAGE 317]

MRT remuneration disclosures
The following tables set out the remuneration disclosures for The 2024 variable pay information included in the following tables is
individuals identified as MRTs for HSBC Holdings. based on the market value of awards. For share awards, the market
value is based on HSBC Holdings’ share price at the date of grant
Remuneration information for individuals who are only identified as
(unless indicated otherwise). For cash awards, it is the value of
MRTs at HSBC Bank plc, HSBC UK Bank plc or other solo-regulated
awards expected to be paid to the individual over the deferral period.
entity levels is included, where relevant, in those entities’ disclosures.
Remuneration awarded for the financial year (REM1)
Other
Supervisory Management Other senior identified
function function management staff
Number of identified staff 13.0 2.0 18.9 1,260.6
Total fixed pay ($m) 7.1 7.4 45.0 703.8
– of which: cash-based ($m)1 7.1 3.6 45.0 703.8
Fixed
– of which: shares or equivalent ownership interests ($m)2 — 3.8 — —
remuneration
– of which: share-linked instruments or equivalent non-cash instruments ($m) — — — —
– of which: other instruments ($m) — — — —
– of which: other forms ($m) — — — —
Number of identified staff 13.0 2.0 18.9 1,260.6
Total variable remuneration ($m)4 — 20.2 81.1 769.0
– of which: cash-based ($m) — 2.1 36.8 387.8
– of which: deferred ($m) — 0.6 16.3 179.7
– of which: shares or equivalent ownership interests ($m)2 — 18.1 44.3 367.6
Variable – of which: deferred ($m) — 16.7 31.3 209.5
remuneration3 – of which: share-linked instruments or equivalent non-cash instruments ($m) — — — 9.3
– of which: deferred ($m) — — — 5.1
– of which: other instruments ($m) — — — —
– of which: deferred ($m) — — — —
– of which: other forms ($m) — — — 4.3
– of which: deferred ($m) — — — 2.7
Total remuneration ($m) 7.1 27.6 126.1 1,472.8
1 Cash-based fixed remuneration is paid immediately.
2 Paid in HSBC shares. Vested shares are subject to a retention period of up to one year.
3 Variable pay awarded in respect of 2024. In accordance with shareholder approval received on 3 May 2024 (99% in favour), and where regulations permit, for
each MRT the variable component of remuneration for any one year is limited to ten times the fixed component of total remuneration, in line with the maximum
pay ratio approved by the Group Remuneration Committee. HSBC Holdings plc continues to provide approval for entities regulated by the European Banking
Authority to operate a maximum variable pay ratio of 200% of the fixed component of total remuneration for each MRT, where permitted to do so.
4 27 identified staff members were exempt from the application of the remuneration structure requirements for MRTs under the PRA and FCA remuneration rules.
Their total remuneration is $7.1m, of which $6.0m is fixed pay and $1.1m is variable remuneration.
Special payments to staff whose professional activities have a material impact on institutions’ risk profile (REM2)
Other
Supervisory Management Other senior identified
function function management staff
Guaranteed variable remuneration awards1
Number of identified staff — — — —
Total amount ($m) — — — —
– of which guaranteed variable remuneration awards paid during the financial year, that are not
taken into account in the bonus cap ($m) — — — —
Severance payments awarded in previous periods, that have been paid out during the financial year2
Number of identified staff — — — 1.0
Total amount ($m) — — — 3.4
Severance payments awarded during the financial year2
Number of identified staff — — 6.9 34.0
Total amount ($m) — — 7.5 42.6
– of which paid during the financial year ($m) — — — 37.1
– of which deferred ($m) — — — —
– of which severance payments paid during the financial year, that are not taken into account in
the bonus cap ($m) — — 7.5 42.6
– of which highest payment that has been awarded to a single person ($m) — — 4.3 9.3
1 No guaranteed variable remuneration was awarded in 2024. HSBC would offer a guaranteed variable remuneration award in exceptional circumstances for new
hires, and for the first year of employment only. It would typically involve a critical new hire, and would also depend on factors such as the seniority of the
individual, whether the new hire candidate has any competing offers and the timing of the hire during the performance year.
2 Includes payments such as payment in lieu of notice, statutory severance, outplacement service, legal fees, ex-gratia payments and settlements (excludes pre-
existing benefit entitlements triggered on terminations).
Corporate
governance

[PAGE 318]

Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report
Deferred remuneration at 31 December1 (REM3)
Amount of
performance Total amount
Amount of adjustment of deferred
performance made in the Total Total amount remuneration
adjustment financial year amount of of deferred awarded for
Total amount made in the to deferred adjustment remuneration previous
of deferred of which: financial year remuneration during the awarded performance
remuneration due to of which: to deferred that was due financial before the period that
awarded for vest in vesting in remuneration to vest in year due to financial year has vested
previous the subsequent that was due future ex post actually paid but is subject
performance financial financial to vest in the performance implicit out in the to retention
$m periods year years financial year years adjustments financial year periods
Supervisory function — — — — — — — —
Cash-based — — — — — — — —
Shares — — — — — — — —
Share-linked instruments — — — — — — — —
Other instruments — — — — — — — —
Other forms — — — — — — — —
Management function 58.9 4.1 54.8 (3.0) — 11.5 4.2 2.7
Cash-based 6.5 1.3 5.2 — — — 1.3 —
Shares 52.4 2.8 49.6 (3.0) — 11.5 2.9 2.7
Share-linked instruments — — — — — — — —
Other instruments — — — — — — — —
Other forms — — — — — — — —
Other senior management 195.8 17.9 177.9 (5.4) — 29.6 18.2 7.5
Cash-based 65.7 8.2 57.5 — — — 8.3 —
Shares 130.1 9.7 120.4 (5.4) — 29.6 9.9 7.5
Share-linked instruments — — — — — — — —
Other instruments — — — — — — — —
Other forms — — — — — — — —
Other identified staff 1,253.5 247.3 1,006.2 — — 152.6 250.8 63.5
Cash-based 467.3 97.3 370.0 — — — 98.2 —
Shares 749.1 142.2 606.9 — — 145.8 144.7 57.8
Share-linked instruments 31.9 6.4 25.5 — — 6.3 6.5 4.4
Other instruments — — — — — — — —
Other forms 5.2 1.4 3.8 — — 0.5 1.4 1.3
Total amount 1,508.2 269.3 1,238.9 (8.4) — 193.7 273.2 73.7
1 This table provides details of balances and movements during performance year 2024. For details of variable pay awards granted for 2024, refer to the
’Remuneration awarded for the financial year’ table. Deferred remuneration is made in cash and/or shares. Share-based awards are made in HSBC shares.
Identified staff - remuneration by band1 (REM4)
Identified staff that are high
earners as set out in Article
450(i) CRR
€1,000,000 – 1,500,000 257
€1,500,000 – 2,000,000 118
€2,000,000 – 2,500,000 48
€2,500,000 – 3,000,000 35
€3,000,000 – 3,500,000 13
€3,500,000 – 4,000,000 8
€4,000,000 – 4,500,000 7
€4,500,000 – 5,000,000 10
€5,000,000 – 6,000,000 7
€6,000,000 – 7,000,000 6
€7,000,000 – 8,000,000 1
€8,000,000 – 9,000,000 1
€9,000,000 – 10,000,000 1
€10,000,000 – 11,000,000 3
€11,000,000 – 12,000,000 —
€12,000,000 – 13,000,000 —
€13,000,000 – 14,000,000 —
€14,000,000 – 15,000,000 —
€15,000,000 – 16,000,000 1
€16,000,000 – 17,000,000 —
€17,000,000 – 18,000,000 —
€18,000,000 – 19,000,000 —
€19,000,000 – 20,000,000 1
1 Table prepared in euros in accordance with Article 450 of the European Union Capital Requirements Regulation, using the exchange rates published by the
European Commission for financial programming and budget for December of the reported year as published on its website.

[PAGE 319]

Information on remuneration of staff whose professional activities have a material impact on institutions’ risk profile (REM5)
Management body Business areas
Independent
internal
Supervisory Management Investment Retail Asset Corporate control All
function function Total banking banking management function function other Total
Total number of
identified staff 1,294.5
– of which members of
the Board 13.0 2.0 15.0
– of which senior
management 2.0 2.0 — 6.9 2.0 6.0
– of which other
identified staff 532.9 289.6 29.0 165.0 183.5 60.6
Total remuneration of
identified staff ($m) 7.1 27.6 34.7 721.4 329.7 38.8 220.8 149.0 139.2
– of which variable
remuneration ($m)1 — 20.2 20.2 394.6 167.6 20.6 112.9 69.6 84.8
– of which fixed
remuneration ($m) 7.1 7.4 14.5 326.8 162.1 18.2 107.9 79.4 54.4
1 Variable pay awarded in respect of 2024. In accordance with shareholder approval received on 3 May 2024 (99% in favour), and where regulations permit, for
each MRT the variable component of remuneration for any one year is limited to ten times the fixed component of total remuneration, in line with the maximum
pay ratio approved by the Group Remuneration Committee. HSBC Holdings plc continues to provide approval for entities regulated by the European Banking
Authority to operate a maximum variable pay ratio of 200% of the fixed component of total remuneration for each MRT, where permitted to do so.
Share plan matters considered by the Group Remuneration Committee
The Group Remuneration Committee and its delegates considered Certain awards were granted to executive Directors or senior
various matters relating to the HSBC share plans during the financial managers with vesting periods of less than 12 months:
year.
– Fixed pay allowance awards were granted to executive Directors
The HSBC International Employee Share Purchase Plan in accordance with the approved Directors’ remuneration policy,
(‘ShareMatch’) and The HSBC Holdings Savings-Related Share Option which vest immediately and are subject to a retention period.
Plan (UK) (‘Sharesave’) were offered in 2024. The HSBC variable pay These awards are not subject to clawback on the basis that they
deferral approach for the 2024 performance year was approved, for form part of the executive Directors’ fixed pay. The awards were
which certain minor updates were made to comply with legal and granted under the HSBC Share Plan 2011.
regulatory requirements. The Directors Remuneration Policy was
– Immediate share awards were granted to executive Directors and
approved and will be available for shareholders to vote on at the 2025
senior managers in compliance with our regulatory requirements
AGM. Other awards with performance conditions were approved for
to deliver a portion of non-deferred variable pay in instruments.
certain strategically important projects during 2024.
These awards vest immediately, and are subject to a retention
period and clawback provisions.
Corporate
governance

[PAGE 320]

Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
Share capital and other related
governance disclosures
Share buy-backs
On 1 November 2023, HSBC Holdings commenced a further share trading venues and 173,041,600 ordinary shares repurchased for
buy-back of its ordinary shares of up to a maximum consideration of cancellation on HKEx.
$3.0bn. The share buy-back continued in 2024 and was concluded on
On 31 October 2024, HSBC Holdings commenced a further share
16 February 2024, with 64,733,089 ordinary shares repurchased for
buy-back of its ordinary shares of up to a maximum consideration of
cancellation on UK trading venues and 79,414,800 ordinary shares
$3.0bn. As at 31 December 2024, 132,349,029 ordinary shares had
repurchased for cancellation on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong
been repurchased for cancellation on UK trading venues and
Limited (’HKEx’) from 1 January 2024 to 16 February 2024.
82,502,400 ordinary shares had been repurchased for cancellation on
On 23 February 2024, HSBC Holdings commenced a further share HKEx.
buy-back of its ordinary shares of up to a maximum consideration of
The purpose of the share buy-backs was to reduce HSBC’s number of
$2.0bn. This share buy-back concluded on 23 April 2024 with
outstanding ordinary shares.
127,570,463 ordinary shares repurchased for cancellation on UK
trading venues and 127,412,800 ordinary shares repurchased for
As at 31 December 2024, the total number of ordinary shares
cancellation on HKEx.
repurchased during the year was 1,302,256,972, representing a
nominal value of $651,128,486 and an aggregate consideration paid
On 8 May 2024, HSBC Holdings commenced a further share buy-back
by HSBC of £4,477,248,660 on UK trading venues and
of its ordinary shares of up to a maximum consideration of $3.0bn.
HK$41,961,808,443 on HKEx. The ordinary shares repurchased
This share buy-back concluded on 26 July 2024 with 171,668,799
represent 7.256% of the ordinary shares in issue as at 31 December
ordinary shares repurchased for cancellation on UK trading venues
2024. Of the repurchased ordinary shares, 20,433,459 were awaiting
and 171,252,800 ordinary shares repurchased for cancellation on
cancellation as at 31 December 2024.
HKEx.
The table that follows outlines details of the ordinary shares
On 2 August 2024, HSBC Holdings commenced a further share buy-
purchased and cancelled on a monthly basis during 2024.
back of its ordinary shares of up to a maximum consideration of
$3.0bn. This share buy-back concluded on 25 October 2024 with
172,311,192 ordinary shares repurchased for cancellation on UK
Share buy-back - UK venues
Number of shares Highest price Lowest price Average price Aggregate
repurchased paid per share paid per share paid per share price paid
£ £ £ £
Jan 2024 64,733,089 6.4300 5.8190 6.1356 397,174,665
Feb 2024 17,761,890 6.2050 5.9270 6.0468 107,403,375
Mar 2024 59,048,017 6.2810 5.7290 6.0295 356,031,979
Apr 2024 50,760,556 6.6960 6.1950 6.4603 327,930,581
May 2024 59,069,838 7.2440 6.8240 6.9678 411,587,427
Jun 2024 76,307,014 7.0080 6.7040 6.8620 523,621,847
Jul 2024 36,291,947 6.9330 6.6350 6.7829 246,165,955
Aug 2024 51,180,681 6.6810 6.1090 6.4796 331,631,735
Sep 2024 78,450,902 6.8340 6.4550 6.6528 521,919,215
Oct 2024 46,324,540 7.1490 6.5930 6.8097 315,457,983
Nov 2024 86,259,230 7.3510 6.8880 7.1500 616,752,033
Dec 2024 42,444,868 7.8500 7.3080 7.5762 321,571,865
Total 668,632,572 4,477,248,660
Share buy-back - Hong Kong venues
Number of shares Highest price Lowest price Average price Aggregate
repurchased paid per share paid per share paid per share price paid
(HK$) (HK$) (HK$) (HK$)
Jan 2024 57,819,600 63.8000 57.8500 61.0549 3,530,172,280
Feb 2024 33,790,800 62.4500 58.8500 60.8394 2,055,810,581
Mar 2024 63,110,400 61.9500 58.1000 60.1891 3,798,555,480
Apr 2024 52,106,800 64.9500 61.1000 63.0989 3,287,883,380
May 2024 53,104,800 70.6500 67.5000 68.7465 3,650,768,500
Jun 2024 65,043,200 69.7500 67.0500 68.2592 4,439,796,237
Jul 2024 53,104,800 69.2500 65.9000 67.3965 3,579,076,860
Aug 2024 64,395,200 68.9000 61.1500 65.5441 4,220,726,180
Sep 2024 64,664,000 70.9500 65.7500 68.4382 4,425,485,800
Oct 2024 47,667,200 72.3000 67.3500 69.1996 3,298,553,120
Nov 2024 58,186,800 72.5500 68.8500 71.1225 4,138,390,665
Dec 2024 20,630,800 75.9500 72.3500 74.4804 1,536,589,360
Total 633,624,400 41,961,808,443

[PAGE 321]

Dividends
Dividends for 2024 Ordinary shares
First, second and third interim dividends for 2024, each of $0.10 per HSBC Holdings has one class of ordinary share, which carries no right
ordinary share, were paid on 21 June 2024, 27 September 2024 and to fixed income. There are no voting restrictions on the issued
19 December 2024. A special dividend of $0.21 was paid on 21 June ordinary shares, all of which are fully paid. On a show of hands, each
2024. For further details of the dividends approved in 2024, see Note member present has the right to one vote at general meetings. On a
8 on the financial statements. poll, each member present or voting by proxy is entitled to one vote
for every $0.50 nominal value of share capital held.
On 19 February 2025, the Directors approved a fourth interim
dividend for 2024 of $0.36 per ordinary share, making a total of $0.87 There are no specific restrictions on transfers of ordinary shares,
for the 2024 full-year when including the $0.21 special dividend. The which are governed by the general provisions of the Articles of
fourth interim dividend for 2024 will be payable on 25 April 2025 in Association and prevailing legislation.
cash in US dollars, or in sterling or Hong Kong dollars at exchange
Information on the policy adopted by the Board for paying interim dividends
rates to be determined on 14 April 2025. The fourth interim dividend
on the ordinary shares may be found in the ’Shareholder information’
for 2024 of $1.80 per American Depositary Share, each of which section on page 439.
represents five ordinary shares, will be payable by the depositary in
Dividend waivers
US dollars. No liability was recorded in the financial statements in
respect of the fourth interim dividend for 2024. The Group’s employee benefit trusts, which hold shares in HSBC
Holdings in connection with the operation of its share plans, have
A quarterly dividend of £0.01 per non-cumulative preference share of
lodged standing instructions to waive dividends on shares held by
£0.01 each was paid on 15 March, 17 June, 16 September and
them that have not been allocated to employees. Shares held by
16 December 2024.
custodians in connection with the vesting of employee share awards
Dividends for 2025 also lodged instructions to waive dividends. The total amount of
dividends waived during 2024 was $28.85m.
The Group intends to pay quarterly dividends on its ordinary shares
Preference shares
during 2025.
The preference shares, which have preferential rights to income and
A quarterly dividend of £0.01 per non-cumulative preference share of
capital, do not, in general, confer a right to attend and vote at general
£0.01 each is payable on 17 March, 16 June, 15 September and
meetings.
15 December 2025 for the quarter then ended at the sole and
absolute discretion of the Board of HSBC Holdings plc. Accordingly, There are three classes of preference shares in the share capital of
the Board of HSBC Holdings plc has approved a quarterly dividend to HSBC Holdings: non-cumulative US dollar preference shares of $0.01
be payable on the non-cumulative preference share on 17 March 2025 each (‘dollar preference shares’); non-cumulative preference shares of
to holders of record on 28 February 2025. £0.01 each (‘sterling preference shares’); and non-cumulative
preference shares of €0.01 (‘euro preference shares’).
Distributable Reserves
The sterling preference share in issue is a Series A sterling preference
share. There are no dollar preference shares or euro preference
As at 31 December 2024, the distributable reserves of HSBC
shares in issue.
Holdings were $28.3bn, inclusive of $24.8bn in profits and other
reserves movements generated in 2024. As at the date of this report, Information on dividends approved for 2023 and 2024 may be found in
HSBC Holdings intends to increase its distributable reserves subject Note 8 on the financial statements.
to shareholder and court approval. Shareholder approval will be
Further details of the rights and obligations attaching to the HSBC Holdings’
sought at the 2025 AGM. The process will involve the conversion of issued share capital may be found in Note 32 on the financial statements.
the amount standing to the credit of each of the share premium
Compliance with Hong Kong Listing
account ($14.8bn) and capital redemption reserve ($1.8bn) as at
31 December 2024 into retained earnings, and will have no impact on Rule 13.25A(2)
regulatory capital. Further information will be included in the Notice of
the 2025 AGM which will be circulated to shareholders on 21 March HSBC Holdings has been granted a waiver from strict compliance
2025. The process is expected to complete by the end of July 2025. with Rule 13.25A(2) of the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities
on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited.
Share capital Under this waiver, HSBC’s obligation to file a Next Day Return
following the issue of new shares, pursuant to the vesting of share
Issued share capital awards granted under its share plans to persons who are not
Directors, would only be triggered where it falls within one of the
The nominal value of HSBC Holdings’ issued share capital paid up at circumstances set out under Rule 13.25A(3).
31 December 2024 was $8,973,475,291 divided into 17,946,950,582
ordinary shares of $0.50 each and one non-cumulative preference Share capital changes in 2024
share of £0.01, representing approximately 100.00% and 0.00%
respectively of the nominal value of HSBC Holdings’ total issued In addition to the share buy-backs, the following events occurred
share capital paid up at 31 December 2024. during the year in relation to the ordinary share capital of HSBC
Holdings:
Rights, obligations and restrictions
Scrip dividends
attaching to shares There were no scrip dividends issued during the year.
The rights and obligations attaching to each class of ordinary and non- Treasury shares
cumulative preference shares in our share capital are set out in full in
HSBC Holdings does not hold any ordinary shares in treasury.
our Articles of Association. The Articles of Association may be
amended by special resolution of the shareholders and can be found
on our website at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/our-people/board-of-
directors/board-responsibilities.
Corporate
governance

[PAGE 322]

Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
All-employee share plans1
HSBC Holdings Aggregate Market value per share
ordinary shares issued nominal value from to
$ £ £
HSBC International Employee Share Purchase Plan 141,770 70,885 5.957 6.707
1 In respect of the HSBC Holdings Savings Related Share Option Plan (UK), no new shares were issued under this plan. All exercises were satisfied by market
purchased shares. See page 326 for details of options granted, exercised and lapsed.
HSBC share plans
HSBC Holdings Aggregate Market value per share
ordinary shares issued nominal value from to
$ £ £
Vesting of awards under the HSBC Share Plan 2011 10,141,660 5,070,830 5.799 7.177
Authorities to allot and to purchase Holdings ordinary shares of 1,007,946,172, representing 5.04% of
the total voting rights at that date.
shares and pre-emption rights
At 31 December 2024, according to the register maintained by HSBC
At the AGM in 2024, shareholders renewed the general authority for Holdings pursuant to section 336 of the Securities and Futures
the Directors to allot new shares up to 12,700,701,506 ordinary Ordinance of Hong Kong:
shares, 15,000,000 non-cumulative preference shares of £0.01 each,
15,000,000 non-cumulative preference shares of $0.01 each, – BlackRock, Inc. gave notice on 24 December 2024 that on
15,000,000 non-cumulative preference shares of €0.01 each. 19 December 2024 it had the following interests in HSBC Holdings
Shareholders also renewed the authority for the Directors to make ordinary shares: a long position of 1,615,527,141 shares and a
market/off-market purchases of up to 1,905,105,226 ordinary shares. short position of 4,231,678 shares, representing 8.99% and
The Directors exercised their market/off-market purchase authority 0.02%, respectively, of the ordinary shares in issue at that date.
from both the 2023 AGM and the 2024 AGM and repurchased – Ping An Asset Management Co., Ltd. gave notice on 10 May 2024
1,302,256,972 ordinary shares during the year. that on 7 May 2024 it had a long position of 1,502,584,731 in
HSBC Holdings ordinary shares, representing 7.98% of the
In addition, shareholders gave authority for the Directors to grant ordinary shares in issue at that date.
rights to subscribe for, or to convert any security into, no more than
3,810,210,452 ordinary shares in relation to any issue by HSBC Between 31 December 2024 and 14 February 2025, the following
Holdings, or any member of the Group, of contingent convertible notification was received:
securities that automatically convert into or are exchanged for
– BlackRock, Inc. gave notice on 31 January 2025 that on 28 January
ordinary shares in HSBC Holdings in prescribed circumstances. For
2025 it had the following interests in HSBC Holdings ordinary
further details on the issue of contingent convertible securities, see
shares: a long position of 1,601,449,305 shares and a short
Note 32 on the financial statements.
position of 5,961,010 shares, representing 8.97% and 0.03%,
Other than as disclosed in the tables above headed ‘Share capital respectively, of the ordinary shares in issue at that date.
changes in 2024’, the Directors did not allot any shares during 2024.
Sufficiency of float
Debt securities
In compliance with the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on
In 2024, HSBC Holdings issued the equivalent of $24.0bn of debt The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited, at least 25% of the total
securities in the public capital markets in a range of currencies and issued share capital has been held by the public at all times during
maturities, of which $16.1bn were in the form of senior securities to 2024 and up to the date of this report.
ensure it meets the current and proposed regulatory rules, including
Dealings in HSBC Holdings listed
those relating to the availability of adequate total loss-absorbing
capacity. For details of capital instruments and subordinated bail-
securities
inable debt, see Notes 29 and 32 on pages 416 and 423.
The Group has policies and procedures that, except where permitted
Treasury shares
by statute and regulation, prohibit specified transactions in respect of
HSBC Holdings does not hold any ordinary shares in treasury. its securities listed on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited.
Except for dealings as intermediaries or as trustees by subsidiaries of
Notifiable interests in share capital HSBC Holdings, and purchases by HSBC Holdings under the share
buy-backs, neither HSBC Holdings nor any of its subsidiaries has
During 2024, HSBC Holdings did not receive any notification of major purchased, sold or redeemed any of its securities listed on The Stock
holdings of voting rights pursuant to the requirements of Rule 5 of the Exchange of Hong Kong Limited during the year ended 31 December
Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules (’Rule 5 of the DTRs’). 2024.
No notifications had been received between 31 December 2024 and
14 February 2025. Previous notifications received are as follows: Directors’ interests
– BlackRock, Inc. gave notice on 3 March 2020 that on 2 March Pursuant to the requirements of the UK Listing Rules and according to the
2020 it had the following: an indirect interest in HSBC Holdings register of Directors’ interests maintained by HSBC Holdings pursuant to
ordinary shares of 1,235,558,490; qualifying financial instruments section 352 of the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong, the
with 7,294,459 voting rights that may be acquired if the Directors of HSBC Holdings at 31 December 2024 had certain interests,
instruments are exercised or converted; and financial instruments all beneficial unless otherwise stated, in the shares or debentures of
with a similar economic effect to qualifying financial instruments, HSBC Holdings and its associated corporations.
which refer to 2,441,397 voting rights, representing 6.07%, 0.03%
and 0.01%, respectively, of the total voting rights at 2 March 2020. Save as stated in the following table, no further interests were held
by Directors, and no Directors or their connected persons were
– Ping An Asset Management Co., Ltd. gave notice on 6 December
awarded or exercised any right to subscribe for any shares or
2017 that on 4 December 2017 it had an indirect interest in HSBC
debentures in any HSBC corporation during the year.

[PAGE 323]

No Directors held any short position as defined in the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong in the shares or debentures of HSBC
Holdings and its associated corporations.
Directors’ interests – shares and debentures
At 31 Dec 2024 or date of cessation, if earlier
At 1 Jan 2024, or Jointly
date of Child with
appointment, Beneficial under 18 spouse/ Total
if later owner or spouse other Trustee interests
HSBC Holdings ordinary shares
Geraldine Buckingham1 15,000 15,000 15,000
Rachel Duan1 15,000 15,000 15,000
Georges Elhedery2 753,467 966,017 966,017
Dame Carolyn Fairbairn 15,000 15,000 15,000
James Forese1 115,000 115,000 115,000
Ann Godbehere1 15,000 15,000 15,000
Steven Guggenheimer1 15,000 15,000 15,000
José Antonio Meade Kuribreña1 15,000 15,000 15,000
Kalpana Morparia1 15,000 15,000 15,000
Eileen Murray1 75,000 75,000 75,000
Brendan Nelson — 15,000 15,000
David Nish (retired on 3 May 2024) 50,000 50,000 50,000
Sir Noel Quinn2 (retired on 2 September 2024) 1,721,465 2,046,949 2,046,949
Swee Lian Teo 15,200 15,200 15,200
Sir Mark Tucker 307,352 307,352 307,352
1 Geraldine Buckingham has an interest in 3,000, Rachel Duan in 3,000, James Forese in 23,000, Ann Godbehere in 3,000, Steven Guggenheimer in 3,000, José
Antonio Meade Kuribreña in 3,000, Kalpana Morparia in 3,000 and Eileen Murray in 15,000 listed American Depositary Shares (’ADS’), which are categorised as
equity derivatives under Part XV of the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong. Each ADS represents five HSBC Holdings ordinary shares.
2 Executive Directors’ other interests in HSBC Holdings ordinary shares arising from the HSBC Holdings Savings-Related Share Option Plan (UK) and the HSBC
Share Plan 2011 are set out in the Scheme interests in the Directors’ remuneration report on page 279. At 31 December 2024, or date of cessation if earlier, the
aggregate interests under the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong in HSBC Holdings ordinary shares, including interests arising through employee
share plans and the interests above were: Sir Noel Quinn – 5,736,459; and Georges Elhedery – 2,616,836, representing approximately 0.03% and 0.015% of the
shares in issue respectively.
There have been no changes in the shares or debentures of the current Directors from 31 December 2024 to the date of this report.
assessment by the Group Chairman and the Nomination & Corporate
UK Listing Rule 6.6.1 and other Governance Committee, are proposed for re-election by shareholders
at each AGM. They typically serve two three-year terms, with any
disclosures
individual’s appointment beyond six years to be for a rolling one-year
term and subject to thorough review and challenge with reference to
The disclosures required by UKLR 6.6.1, and other regulations, are set
the needs of the Board. Where non-executive Directors are appointed
out on the following pages:
and Accounts.
Content Page references
Long-term incentives 298 Shareholders vote at each AGM on whether to elect and re-elect
Dividends and Dividend waivers 319 individual Directors. All Directors that stood for election and re-
Share buy-back 318 election at the 2024 AGM were elected and re-elected by
Emissions 42 shareholders.
Energy Efficiency 42, 45-46
Joint Company Secretary
Principal activities of HSBC 11, 30, 96-97, 405
Business review and future developments 11-40, 41, 128, 136, 430 Aileen Taylor is the Group Company Secretary and Group Chief
Risk Review 37-39, 128-235 People & Governance Officer.
Engagement with suppliers, customers and
others 20-21 Hannah Ashdown (48) was appointed as Deputy Group Secretary in
December 2021 and for administrative purposes, in October 2022, was
appointed as Joint Company Secretary. She is a Fellow of the Chartered
Board governance Governance Institute UK and Ireland. Hannah has over 20 years’
governance and regulatory experience across multiple sectors including
Appointment and re-election of financial services, asset management, energy, leisure and retail.
Directors Independence
A rigorous selection process is followed for the appointment of Independence is a critical component of good corporate governance,
Directors. Appointments are made on merit and candidates are and a principle that is applied consistently at both the HSBC Holdings
considered against objective criteria, and with regard to the benefits and subsidiary level. The Group Nomination & Corporate Governance
of a diverse Board. Appointments are made in accordance with HSBC Committee has delegated authority from the Board in relation to the
Holdings’ Articles of Association. assessment of the independence of non-executive Directors. In
accordance with the UK and Hong Kong Corporate Governance
The Board may at any time appoint any person as a Director or Codes, the Group Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee
secretary, either to fill a vacancy or as an additional officer. The Board has reviewed and confirmed that all non-executive Directors who
may appoint any Director or secretary to hold any employment or have submitted themselves for election and re-election at the AGM
executive office and may revoke or terminate any such appointment. are considered to be independent. This conclusion was reached after
consideration of all relevant circumstances that are likely to impair, or
Non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial three-year term
could appear to impair, independence.
and, subject to continued satisfactory performance based upon an
Corporate
governance

[PAGE 324]

Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
In line with the requirements of the Hong Kong Corporate HSBC Holdings has granted, by way of deed poll, indemnities to the
Governance Code, the Group Nomination & Corporate Governance Directors, including former Directors, against certain liabilities arising
Committee also reviewed and considered the mechanisms in place to in connection with their position as a Director of HSBC Holdings or of
ensure independent views and inputs are available to the Board. any Group company. Directors are indemnified to the maximum
These mechanisms include: extent permitted by law.
– having the appropriate Board and committee structure in place, The indemnities that constitute a ’qualifying third-party indemnity
including rules on the appointment and tenure of non-executive provision’, as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006,
Directors; remained in force for the whole of the financial year (or, in the case of
Directors appointed during 2024, from the date of their appointment).
– facilitating the option of having brokers and external industry
The deed poll is available for inspection at the registered office of
experts in attendance at Board meetings during 2024, as well as
HSBC Holdings.
having representatives from the Group’s key regulators attend
Board meetings in relation to specific regulatory items; Additionally, Directors and pension trustees have the benefit of both
– ensuring non-executive Directors are entitled to obtain Directors’ and officers’ liability insurance and pension trustees’ liability
independent professional advice relating to their personal insurance. Qualifying pension scheme indemnities have also been
responsibilities as a Director at the Group’s expense; granted to the trustees of the Group’s pension schemes, which were
in force for the whole of the financial year and remain in force as at
– having terms of reference for each committee and the Board that
the date of this report.
provide authority to engage independent professional advisers;
and Contracts of significance
– holding annual Board and committee performance reviews, with
During 2024, none of the Directors had a material interest, directly or
feedback sought from members on the quality of, and access to,
indirectly, in any contract of significance with any HSBC company.
independent external advice.
During the year, all Directors were reminded of their obligations in
Conflicts of interest respect of transacting in HSBC securities and, following specific
enquiry, all Directors have confirmed that they have complied with
The Board has an established policy and set of procedures, which are their obligations.
reviewed annually, to ensure that the Board’s management of
Directors’ conflicts of interest is effective. The Board has the power Shareholder engagement and
to authorise conflicts where they arise, in accordance with the
communication
Companies Act 2006 and HSBC Holdings’ Articles of Association.
Details of all Directors’ conflicts of interest are recorded in the The Board is directly accountable to, and gives high priority to
register of conflicts. Upon appointment, new Directors are advised of communicating with, HSBC’s shareholders. Information about HSBC
the policy and procedures for managing conflicts. Directors are and its activities is provided to shareholders in its Interim Reports and
interest and to update the Board with any changes to the facts and
circumstances surrounding such conflicts. Directors are requested to The Board seeks to understand investor needs through ongoing
review and confirm their own and their respective closely associated dialogue between members of the Board and institutional investors
persons’ outside interests and appointments twice each year. The throughout the year. For examples of such engagement, see
Board has considered, and authorised (with or without conditions) ’Directors’ engagements with key stakeholders in 2024’ on page 21
where appropriate, potential conflicts as they have arisen during the and the Group Remuneration Committee Chair’s letter on page 279.
year in accordance with its conflicts policy and procedures. All non- During 2024, approximately 612 meetings were held with institutional
executive Directors are subject to re-vetting by the Group’s investors and analysts globally.
compliance team on a triennial basis following appointment. As part
Our shareholder communications policy summarises how we
of this re-vetting process, all conflict checks are refreshed.
communicate with our shareholders, including through financial
Non-executive Director commitments reporting, general shareholder meetings, investor and analyst meetings
and our website. The policy is reviewed annually by the Board, and in
The terms and conditions of the appointments of non-executive 2024 the Board confirmed that it was satisfied with its implementation
Directors are set out in a letter of appointment, which includes the and effectiveness. The policy can be found at www.hsbc.com/who-we-
expectations of them, and the estimated time required to perform are/our-people/board-of-directors/board-responsibilities.
their role. Letters of appointment of each non-executive Director are
available for inspection at the registered office of HSBC Holdings. We also publish our current and past financial results, investor
presentations and shareholder information such as dividend payments
Non-executive Directors serving on the Board and as a member of and shareholder meeting details. Stock exchange announcements are
any committees are expected to serve up to 75 days per annum. The also accessible on our website along with information for fixed
Senior Independent Director is expected to serve an additional 30 income investors. For further details, see www.hsbc.com/investors.
days per annum. Those Directors who also chair a large committee
are expected to commit up to 100 days per annum, with the Group Directors are encouraged to develop an understanding of the views of
Risk Committee Chair expected to commit up to 150 days per annum. shareholders. Enquiries from individuals on matters relating to their
Any additional time commitment required of non-executive Directors shareholdings and HSBC’s business are welcomed. Any individual or
in connection with Board and committee activities is confirmed to institutional investor can make an enquiry by contacting the investor
them separately. relations team, Group Chairman, Group CEO, Group CFO and Group
Company Secretary and Chief Governance Officer. Our Senior
Board approval is required for any non-executive Director’s external Independent Director is also available to shareholders if they have
commitments, with consideration given to their total time concerns that cannot be resolved or for which the normal channels
commitments, potential conflicts of interest, and regulatory and would not be appropriate. They can be contacted via the Group
investor expectations. Company Secretary and Chief Governance Officer at 8 Canada
Square, London E14 5HQ.
Directors’ indemnities
Annual General Meeting
The Articles of Association of HSBC Holdings contain a qualifying
third-party indemnity provision, which entitles Directors and other The AGM in 2025 is planned to be held in London, UK at 10:00am on
officers to be indemnified out of the assets of HSBC Holdings against Friday, 2 May 2025. Information on how to vote and participate, both
claims from third parties in respect of certain liabilities. in advance and on the day, can be found in the Notice of the 2025
AGM, which will be sent to shareholders on 21 March 2025 and be

[PAGE 325]

available on www.hsbc.com/agm. A live webcast will be available on Political donations
www.hsbc.com/agm. A recording of the proceedings will be available
on www.hsbc.com/agm shortly after the conclusion of the AGM.
HSBC does not make any political donations or incur political
Shareholders should monitor our website and announcements for any
expenditure within the ordinary meaning of those words. We have no
changes to these arrangements. Shareholders may send enquiries to
intention of altering this policy. However, the definitions of political
the Board in writing via Company Secretary, HSBC Holdings plc,
donations, political parties, political organisations and political
8 Canada Square, London E14 5HQ or by sending an email to
expenditure used in the UK Companies Act 2006 are very wide. As a
shareholderquestions@hsbc.com.
result, they may cover routine activities that form part of the normal
business activities of the Group and are an accepted part of engaging
General meetings and resolutions
with stakeholders. To ensure that neither the Group nor any of its
Shareholders may require the Directors to call a general meeting subsidiaries inadvertently breaches the UK Companies Act 2006,
other than an AGM, as provided by the UK Companies Act 2006. A authority is sought from shareholders at the AGM to make political
valid request to call a general meeting may be made by members donations.
representing at least 5% of the paid-up capital of HSBC Holdings as
HSBC provides administrative support to two political action
carries the right of voting at its general meetings (excluding any paid-
committees (’PACs’) in the US funded by voluntary political
up capital held as treasury shares). A request must state the general
contributions by eligible employees. We do not control the PACs, and
nature of the business to be dealt with at the meeting and may
all decisions regarding the amounts and recipients of contributions are
include the text of a resolution that may properly be moved and is
directed by a voluntary Board Finance Committee, which consists of
intended to be moved at the meeting. At any general meeting
contributing eligible employees. The PACs recorded combined
convened on such request, no business may be transacted except
political donations of $124,450 during 2024 (2023: $110,004).
that stated by the requisition or proposed by the Board.
Shareholders may request the Directors to send a resolution to Charitable contributions
shareholders for consideration at an AGM, as provided by the UK
Companies Act 2006. A valid request must be made by
For details of charitable contributions, see page 72.
(i) members representing at least 5% of the paid-up capital of HSBC
Holdings as carries the right of voting at its general meetings
(excluding any paid-up capital held as treasury shares), or (ii) at least Internal control
100 members who have a right to vote on the resolution at the AGM
in question and hold shares in HSBC Holdings on which there has
been paid up an average sum, per member, of at least £100. The Board is responsible for monitoring the Group’s risk management
and internal control systems, determining the level and type of risks
The request must be received by HSBC Holdings not later than (i) six the Group is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives, and
weeks before the AGM in question; or (ii) if later, the time at which reviewing the effectiveness of these procedures on an annual basis.
the notice of AGM is published.
To meet this requirement and to discharge its obligations under the
A request may be in hard copy form or in electronic form, and must FCA Handbook and the PRA Rulebook, procedures have been
be authenticated by the person or persons making it. A request may designed to provide reasonable assurance against material
be made in writing to HSBC Holdings at its UK address, referred to in misstatement, errors, losses or fraud. They are designed to provide
the paragraph above or by sending an email to effective internal control within the Group and accord with the
shareholderquestions@hsbc.com. Financial Reporting Council‘s guidance for Directors, issued in 2014,
on risk management, internal control and related financial and
Articles of Association
business reporting. The procedures have been in place throughout the
year and up to 19 February 2025, the date of publication of the Annual
The Articles of Association were last approved at the 2022 AGM. The
Report and Accounts 2024.
Articles of Association can be found at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/
our-people/board-of-directors/board-responsibilities. The Board, the GRC and the GAC monitored the effectiveness of the
Group’s system of risk management and internal control during the
Events after the balance sheet date year through regular updates on the operation of the Group's internal
controls, supplemented by reviews of these controls by the second
line of defence and internal audit, and the external auditors. In
For details of events after the balance sheet date, see Note 37 on the
particular, this focused on the Group’s regulatory remediation and
financial statements.
change programmes, and involved working closely with management
to better prioritise and understand where there are key
Change of control interdependencies. These reviews enabled to the Board to perform an
annual review of effectiveness, identifying no material weaknesses as
The Group is not party to any significant agreements that take effect, at the year-end. To support the work of the Board, the GRC and the
alter or terminate following a change of control of the Group. The GAC in discharging their responsibilities in this regard, assurance was
Group does not have agreements with any Director or employee that also provided by executive management confirming that a risk
would provide compensation for loss of office or employment assessment had been undertaken and controls were in place to
resulting from a takeover bid. mitigate the risks arising from the Group’s key activities. Necessary
actions will be taken to remedy any failings or weaknesses identified
from these activities on an ongoing basis.
Branches
In 2025, continued focus will be placed on the quality and timeliness
The Group provides a wide range of banking and financial services of data used to inform management decisions and support oversight
through branches and offices in the UK and overseas. of emerging risks and potential risks arising from new products and
offerings. In preparation for the Board’s forthcoming responsibility
Research and development activities under the 2024 UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board approved
changes to the scope of the GAC’s responsibilities in relation to
internal controls to extend these to cover all internal controls and,
During the ordinary course of business, the Group develops new
once defined, all material controls including financial, operational,
products and services within the global businesses.
reporting and compliance controls.
Corporate
governance

[PAGE 326]

Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
The key risk management and internal control procedures include the We continue our focus on the quality and timeliness of the data used
following: to inform management decisions, through measures such as early
warning indicators, prudent active risk management of our risk
The HSBC Book appetite, and ensuring regular communication with our Board and
other key stakeholders.
In 2024, the HSBC Book replaced the Global Principles document and
is situated at the top of the HSBC document hierarchy. It underpins Responsibility for risk management
the key principles, policies and procedures that are fundamental to
the Group’s risk management structure. It informs and connects our All employees are responsible for identifying and managing risk within
purpose, ambition, strategy and values, guiding us to make the scope of their role as part of the three lines of defence model.
responsible decisions aligned to our risk culture and risk management This is an activity-based model to delineate management
approach, to do the right thing, and to treat our customers and our accountabilities and responsibilities for risk management and the
colleagues fairly at all times. control environment. The second line of defence sets the policy and
guidelines for managing specific risk areas, provides advice and
Risk management framework guidance in relation to the risk, and challenges the first line of defence
(the risk owners) on effective risk management.
The risk management framework supports our HSBC Book. It outlines
the key principles and practices that we employ in managing material The Board delegated authority to the GAC to annually review the
risks. It applies to all categories of risk and supports a consistent independence, autonomy and effectiveness of the Group’s policies
approach in identifying, assessing, managing and reporting the risks and procedures on whistleblowing, including the procedures for the
we accept and incur in our activities. protection of staff who raise concerns of detrimental treatment.
Delegation of authority within limits Strategic plans
set by the Board Strategic plans are prepared for global businesses, global functions
and geographical regions within the framework of the Group’s overall
Subject to certain matters reserved for the Board, the Group CEO has
strategy. Financial resource plans, informed by detailed analysis of
been delegated authority limits and powers within which to manage the
risk appetite describing the types and quantum of risk that the Group
day-to-day affairs of the Group. A delegation of authority framework is in
is prepared to take in executing its strategy, are prepared and adopted
place providing a Group structure within which the Board and its
by all major Group operating companies and set out the key business
subsidiaries can manage their delegated powers. These delegated
initiatives and the likely financial effects of those initiatives.
authorities can be used for the approval, signing and execution of
specific written agreements and documents such as procurement
contracts. Internal control over financial
The delegation of authority framework is adopted on a legal entity basis reporting
via a board resolution which is reviewed annually. Matters not covered
by the delegation of authority framework can be set out in a separate HSBC is required to comply with section 404 of the US Sarbanes-
board resolution, powers of attorney or the relevant Group policy with Oxley Act of 2002 and assess its effectiveness of internal control over
clear systems of control that are appropriate to the business or function. financial reporting at 31 December 2024. In 2014, the GAC endorsed
Authorities to enter into credit and market risk exposures are delegated the adoption of the principles of the Committee of Sponsoring
with limits to line management of Group companies in line with Group Organizations of the Treadway Commission (’COSO’) 2013
policy. Credit and market risks are measured and reported at subsidiary framework for the monitoring of risk management and internal control
company level and aggregated for risk concentration analysis on a systems to satisfy the requirements of section 404 of the Sarbanes-
Group-wide basis. Oxley Act.
Risk identification and monitoring The primary mechanism through which comfort over risk
management and internal control systems is achieved is through
Systems and procedures are in place to identify, assess, control and annual assessments of the effectiveness of controls to manage risk,
monitor the material risk types facing HSBC as set out in the risk and the reporting of issues on a regular basis through the various risk
management framework. The Group‘s risk measurement and management and risk governance forums, including regular updates
reporting systems are designed to help ensure that material risks are to GAC.
captured with all the attributes necessary to support well-founded
decisions, that those attributes are accurately assessed and that The key risk management and internal control procedures over
information is delivered in a timely manner for those risks to be financial reporting include the following:
successfully managed and mitigated.
Entity level controls
Changes in market conditions/
Entity level controls are a defined suite of internal controls that have a
practices pervasive influence over the entity as a whole and meet the principles
of the COSO framework. They include controls related to the control
Processes are in place to identify new risks arising from changes in environment, such as the Group’s values and ethics, the promotion of
market conditions/practices or customer behaviours, which could effective risk management and the overarching governance exercised
expose the Group to heightened risk of loss or reputational damage. by the Board and its non-executive committees. The design and
operational effectiveness of entity level controls are assessed on an
The Group employs both a top and emerging risks process to provide
ongoing basis. If issues are significant to the Group, they are
forward-looking views of issues with the potential to threaten the
escalated to the GRC and / or the GAC.
execution of our strategy or operations over the medium to long term.
Process level transactional controls
We remain committed to investing in the reliability and resilience of
our IT systems and critical services, including those provided by third Key process level controls that mitigate the risk of financial
parties, that support all parts of our business. We do so to help misstatement are identified, recorded and monitored in accordance
protect our customers, affiliates and counterparties, and to help with the risk framework. This includes the identification and
ensure that we minimise any disruption to services that could result in assessment of relevant control issues against which action plans are
reputational and regulatory consequences. In our approach to defend tracked through to remediation. Further details of HSBC’s approach to
against these threats, we invest in business and technical controls to risk management can be found on page 127.
help us detect, manage and recover from issues, including data loss,
in a timely manner.

[PAGE 327]

Financial reporting controls Employees
The Group’s financial reporting process is controlled using
At 31 December 2024, HSBC had a total workforce equivalent to
documented accounting policies and reporting formats, supported by
211,000 full-time employees compared with 221,000 at the end of
detailed instructions and guidance on reporting requirements, issued
2023. Our main centres of employment were India with
to all reporting entities within the Group in advance of each reporting
approximately 44,000 employees, the UK with 35,000, mainland
period end. The submission of financial information from each
China with 33,000, Hong Kong with 27,000, and Mexico with 16,000.
reporting entity is supported by a certification by the responsible
financial officer and analytical review procedures at reporting entity Our business spans many cultures, communities and continents. We
and Group levels. aspire to provide a high-performing environment where our
colleagues can fulfil their potential by building their skills and
Group Disclosure and Controls
capabilities while focusing on the development of a diverse and
Committee inclusive culture. We use employee surveys to assess progress and
make changes. We want to provide an open culture, where our
Chaired by the Group CFO, the Group Disclosure and Controls colleagues feel connected and supported to speak up, and where our
Committee supports the discharge of the Group’s obligations under leaders encourage and use feedback. Where we make organisational
relevant legislation and regulation including the UK and Hong Kong changes, we support our colleagues, in particular where there are job
listing rules, the UK Market Abuse Regulation and US Securities and impacts.
Exchange Commission rules. In so doing, the Group Disclosure and
Controls Committee is empowered to determine whether a new
Employee relations
event or circumstance should be disclosed, including the form and
timing of such disclosure, and review certain material disclosures
We consult with and, where appropriate, negotiate with employee
made or to be made by the Group. The membership of the Group
representative bodies where we have them. It is our policy to
Disclosure and Controls Committee consists of senior management,
maintain well-developed communications and consultation
including the Group CFO, Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer;
programmes with all employee representative bodies. There have
Group Chief Legal Officer; and Group Chief People and Governance
been no material disruptions to our operations from labour disputes
Officer. The Group’s external auditors are standing attendees, while
during the past five years.
the Group's brokers and external legal counsel are consulted on
relevant matters and attend as required. The integrity of disclosures is We are committed to complying with the applicable employment laws
underpinned by structures and processes within the Global Finance and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate, including in
and Group Risk and Compliance functions that support rigorous relation to working hours and rest periods. HSBC’s employment
analytical review of financial reporting and the maintenance of proper practices and relations policy provides the framework and controls
accounting records. As required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Group through which we seek to uphold that commitment.
CEO and the Group CFO have certified that the Group’s disclosure
controls and procedures were effective as at the end of the period
Inclusion
The annual review of the effectiveness of the Group’s system of risk Our customers, colleagues and communities span many cultures and
management and internal control over financial reporting was continents. We value difference and believe that an inclusive culture
conducted with reference to the COSO 2013 framework. Based on makes us stronger. We are dedicated to building a connected
the assessment performed, the Directors concluded that for the year workforce where everyone feels a sense of belonging.
ended 31 December 2024, the Group’s internal control over financial
reporting was effective. We expect all colleagues at HSBC to treat each other with dignity and
respect to ensure an inclusive environment. Our policies make it clear
PwC has audited the effectiveness of HSBC’s internal control over
that we do not tolerate unlawful discrimination, bullying or
financial reporting and has given an unqualified opinion.
harassment on any grounds. We are transparent in sharing our data
through external disclosures and we participate in benchmarking to
Other information included in the measure our progress across the industry.
ambitions and progress.
Accounts to enable a broader perspective of our performance for the For further details of our representation data, pay gap data, and actions, see
www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/our-people/inclusion-at-hsbc and the ESG Data
period, including ESG and regulatory capital and liquidity information.
Pack at www.hsbc.com/esg
On page 43 we highlight the challenges we face in our sustainability
and climate reporting alongside the key changes we have made to our Employment of people with a
2024 climate disclosures. Strengthening our global regulatory
reporting processes with an aim to enhance data, consistency, and disability
controls remains a key priority for the Group and regulatory
authorities. See page 201 for further details. The GAC provides We strongly believe in providing equal opportunities for our
oversight to our reporting across these areas, including the disclosure employees. The employment of people with a disability is included in
risks in relation to sustainability and climate reporting, and monitoring this commitment. We are committed to retaining disabled employees
of the programme of work to address the quality and reliability of in the workplace and to providing reasonable adjustments to enable
regulatory reporting. See page 265 for further details. this.
Going concern
The Board, having made appropriate enquiries, is satisfied that the
Group as a whole has adequate resources to continue operations for a
period of at least 12 months from the date of this report, and it
therefore continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the
financial statements.
For further details, see page 40.
Corporate
governance

[PAGE 328]

Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
Employee development – We completed the annual safety inspection on all of our buildings
globally, to ensure we were meeting our standards and
Employee development energises our colleagues for growth and continuously improving our safety performance.
helps to equip them with the skills they need today whilst also – We maintained measures in our workplaces globally to minimise
preparing them to meet future challenges. We remain committed to the risks from the spread of respiratory disease, including through
delivering a high-quality learning experience by adopting a data-driven the provision of hand sanitiser, improved ventilation and guidance
approach that targets our learning investment to meet the most on good hygiene practices.
critical skill needs.
– We extended the reach of our Workplace Adjustments programme
By leveraging our strategic workforce blueprints, we have focused our to include all colleagues in India, providing tools and
efforts on critical skill shifts, including digitally enabling our frontline technologies which contribute to making work-life manageable for
colleagues and developing the sustainability and wealth expertise of employees with disability (including physical or sensory), long
our relationship managers, providing a variety of learning opportunities term / mental health condition or a neurodiversity, and will
through our Enterprise Skills Academies. continue the expansion of this programme to further Regions.
– We continued to hold health & safety themed awareness campaigns
We have launched our new AI Academy to support advanced skills
and facilitate CPR and first aid training for our colleagues.
development aligned with HSBC’s AI strategy, expanded our 'Doing
Business in India and China' programmes to include Saudi Arabia, and – We continued to provide our guidance and training programme for
increased our focus on building capabilities beyond foundational skills our construction partners, focusing on our key markets globally to
through our Sustainability Academy. In our global Wealth and Personal reduce the likelihood of accidents occurring by helping them
Banking business we have focused our attention on developing understand and deliver industry-leading health and safety
customer centricity and product expertise, and we have created performance. More than 7,200 construction workers received
opportunities for colleagues to develop new skills and collaborate safety passport training across 13 countries.
more broadly through our transition to a value stream delivery model – In 2024, we achieved full implementation of the Eat Well Live Well
as part of our bank wide Digital Acceleration Programme. programme across 100% of catered HSBC sites, driving global
healthy food sales to 32% with over 10% of all dishes sold globally
We remain committed to our global mandatory training to complete
being plant-based. These results were supported by monthly Eat
annually, as it is essential for shaping our culture and maintaining a
Well Live Well events, and virtual teaching kitchens accessible to
focus on critical issues, such as sustainability and financial crime risk.
all employees.
In line with this commitment, we have maintained our focus on senior
– Protection of our colleagues and operations is of critical importance,
leaders by launching new programs centred on Enterprise Risk
and we have effective controls in place to protect our people from
Leadership, which are designed to equip them with the skills
natural disasters (such as storms and earthquakes). In 2024, there
necessary to navigate an evolving risk environment.
were 40 named storms that passed over 3,127 of our buildings,
Effective leadership is essential for empowering our colleagues to resulting in no injuries and only a minor impact on 3 of our buildings.
develop critical skills, fostering a robust talent pipeline, and supporting
our strategic ambitions. To facilitate this, we have introduced the Employee health and safety
Career Academy, which enables our colleagues to explore their 2024 2023 2022
aspirations, and continued to evolve our flagship Enterprise Rate of workplace fatalities per 100,000 employees — — —
Leadership Programs, including uGrow, Accelerating Women’s Number of major injuries to employees1 14 12 7
Leadership, and Accelerating into Leadership. All injury rate per 100,000 employees 91 110 70
Lost days due to work injury 335 594 485
We have also expanded our Managing Director leadership offering,
supported by a Leadership 360 survey, to ensure comprehensive 1 Fractures, dislocation, concussion, loss of consciousness, overnight
development and alignment with our strategic goals. admission to hospital.
Health and safety Remuneration
HSBC’s pay and performance strategy is designed to reward
We are committed to providing a safe and healthy working
competitively the achievement of long-term sustainable performance
environment for everyone. We have adopted global policies,
and attract and motivate the very best people, regardless of gender,
mandatory procedures, and incident and information reporting
ethnicity, age, disability or any other factor unrelated to performance
systems across the organisation that reflect our core values and are
or experience with the Group, while performing their role in the long-
aligned to international standards. Our global health and safety
term interests of our stakeholders.
performance is subject to ongoing monitoring and assurance to
ensure we are compliant with relevant laws and regulations. For further details of the Group’s approach to remuneration, see page
301.
Our chief operating officers have overall responsibility for engendering
a positive health and safety culture and ensuring that global policies, Employee share plans
procedures and systems are put into practice locally. They also have
responsibility for ensuring all local legal requirements are met. Summaries of the share options and share awards granted, exercised/
vested or lapsed during the year and other details required to be
We delivered a range of activities in 2024 to help us understand and disclosed pursuant to Chapter 17 of the Rules Governing the Listing
manage our health and safety risks: of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited, including
– We achieved the WELL Health and Safety Rating from the detailed summaries of the HSBC share plans, are available on our
International WELL Building Institute at 54 of our global offices as website at www.hsbc.com/investors/results-and-announcements and
a demonstration of our commitment to the provision of safe and on the website of The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited at
healthy workplaces for our employees, customers and www.hkex.com.hk, or can be obtained upon request from the
stakeholders. Company Secretary, 8 Canada Square, London E14 5HQ.
– We reinforced our advice and risk assessment and control
Particulars of options held by Directors of HSBC Holdings are set out on
methodology on working from home for employees adopting a
page 310.
hybrid work style, providing more awareness and best practices on Note 5 on the financial statements gives details of share-based payments,
good ergonomics and well-being. including discretionary awards of shares granted under HSBC share plans.
– We delivered health and safety training and awareness to 228,000
of our employees and contractors globally, ensuring roles and
responsibilities were clear and understood.

[PAGE 329]

Statement of compliance
The statement of corporate governance practices set out on pages HSBC is subject to corporate governance requirements in both the UK
236 to 328 and the information referred to therein constitutes the and Hong Kong. During 2024, HSBC complied with the provisions and
’Corporate governance report’ and ’Report of the Directors’ of HSBC requirements of both the UK and Hong Kong Corporate Governance
Holdings for 2024. Further details of the relevant corporate Codes.
governance codes, role profiles and policies can be obtained from the
Under the Hong Kong Corporate Governance Code, the audit
websites referenced in the table below. The websites referred to do
committee should be responsible for the oversight of all risk
not form part of this report.
management and internal control systems. During 2024, the Board
Relevant corporate governance codes, role profiles and policies approved changes to the scope of the Group Audit Committee’s
responsibilities in relation to internal controls to extend these to cover
UK Corporate Governance Code www.frc.org.uk oversight of the effectiveness of all internal controls. HSBC’s Group
Hong Kong Corporate www.hkex.com.hk Risk Committee retains oversight of internal controls relating to risk
Governance Code (set out in management and risk management systems and provides input to the
Appendix C1 to the Rules Group Audit Committee on these.
Governing the Listing of
HSBC Holdings has codified obligations for transactions in Group
Securities on the Stock
securities in accordance with the requirements of the UK Market
Exchange of Hong Kong Limited
Abuse Regulation and the rules governing the listing of securities on
(’HKEx’))
HKEx. The Group has been granted certain waivers by HKEx from
Descriptions of the roles and www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/our- strict compliance with the rules that take into account accepted
responsibilities of the: people/board-of-directors/board- practices in the UK, particularly in respect of employee share plans.
responsibilities During the year, all Directors were reminded of their obligations in
– Group Chairman
respect of transacting in HSBC Group securities. Following specific
– Group Chief Executive Officer enquiry all Directors have confirmed that they have complied with
their obligations.
– Senior Independent Director
The Group Audit Committee has reviewed and provided assurance to
– Board support the HSBC Holdings Board’s approval and publication of the
people
Roles and responsibilities of the www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/our-
Board’s committees people/board-of-directors/board-
committees On behalf of the Board
Board’s policies on: www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/our-
Sir Mark E Tucker
people/board-of-directors/board-
– diversity and inclusion Group Chairman
responsibilities
– shareholder communication HSBC Holdings plc
– human rights
Registered number 617987
– remuneration practices and
governance 19 February 2025
Global Internal Audit Charter www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-
and-responsible-business/
governance/internal-control
Corporate
governance

[PAGE 330]

Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
Directors’ responsibility statement
Accounts 2024, the Directors’ remuneration report and the financial ‘Report of the Directors: Corporate governance report’ on pages 237
best of their knowledge:
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements
for each financial year. Under that law, the Directors have prepared – the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in
the parent company (‘Company’) and the Group financial statements accordance with UK-adopted international accounting standards
in accordance with UK-adopted international accounting standards. and with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006,
The company has also prepared financial statements in accordance international financial reporting standards adopted pursuant to
with international financial reporting standards adopted pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 as it applies in the European Union
Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 as it applies in the European Union. In and IFRS Accounting Standards, give a true and fair view of the
preparing these financial statements, the Directors have complied assets, liabilities, financial position, and profit or loss of the Group;
with International Financial Reporting Standards issued by the and
International Accounting Standards Board (’IFRS Accounting
– the management report represented by the Report of the
Standards’). Under company law, the Directors must not approve the
Directors includes a fair review of the development and
financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and
performance of the business and the position of the Group,
fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and Group, and of the
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties
profit or loss of the Company and the Group for that period. In
that it faces.
preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to:
The Group Audit Committee has responsibility, delegated to it from
– select suitable accounting policies and then apply them
the Board, for overseeing all matters relating to external financial
consistently;
reporting. The Group Audit Committee report on page 263 sets out
– make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable how the Group Audit Committee discharges its responsibilities.
and prudent;
– state whether applicable UK-adopted international accounting Disclosure of information to auditors
standards, international financial reporting standards adopted
pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 as it applies in the
European Union and IFRS Accounting Standards have been In accordance with section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, the
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and Directors’ report includes a statement, in the case of each Director in
explained in the financial statements; and office as at the date the Report of the Directors is approved, that:
– prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it – so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit
is inappropriate to presume that the Company and Group will information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware; and
continue in business.
– they have taken all the steps they ought to have taken as a
The Directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit
Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for information and to establish that the Company’s auditors are
the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. aware of that information.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s
transactions, and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the
financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to
ensure that the financial statements and the Directors’ remuneration
report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
On behalf of the Board
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the
website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation Group Chairman
and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation HSBC Holdings plc
in other jurisdictions.
Registered number 617987
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides 19 February 2025
the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s
position and performance, business model and strategy.

[PAGE 331]

Financial
statements
The financial statements provide detailed 330 Independent auditors’ report to the members of
information and notes on our income, balance HSBC Holdings plc
341 Financial statements
sheet, cash flows and changes in equity,
341 – Consolidated income statement
alongside a report from our independent auditors.
342 – Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
343 – Consolidated balance sheet
344 – Consolidated statement of changes in equity
347 – Consolidated statement of cash flows
349 – HSBC Holdings financial statements
353 Notes on the financial statements
Hong Kong, 2019. Colleague Collaboration.
Financial
statements

[PAGE 332]

Independent auditors’ report to the members of HSBC Holdings plc
Independent auditors’ report to the
members of HSBC Holdings plc
Report on the audit of the financial statements
Basis for opinion
Opinion
In our opinion, HSBC Holdings plc’s Group financial statements We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on
and parent company financial statements (the ‘financial Auditing (UK) (‘ISAs (UK)’), International Standards on Auditing issued by
statements’): the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (‘ISAs’) and
applicable law. Our responsibilities under ISAs (UK) and ISAs are further
– give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the
described in the Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the financial
parent company’s affairs as at 31 December 2024 and of the
statements section of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we
Group’s and parent company’s profit and the Group’s and
have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our
parent company’s cash flows for the year then ended;
opinion.
– have been properly prepared in accordance with UK-adopted
international accounting standards; and
Independence and appointment
– have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of
the Companies Act 2006. This is the first year that it has been my responsibility to form this
We have audited the financial statements, included within the opinion on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, who, following
comprise: 31 March 2015 by the members for the year ended 31 December
2015 and subsequent financial periods. Following re-tender, we were
– the consolidated and parent company balance sheets as at then reappointed as auditor for the year ended 31 December 2025.
31 December 2024;
Total period of uninterrupted engagement
– the consolidated and parent company income statements; the
consolidated and parent company statements of
comprehensive income; the consolidated and parent company 31 Mar 31 Dec Period of total 31 Dec 31 Dec
statements of changes in equity; and the consolidated and 2015 2015 uninterrupted engagement 2024 2025
(10 years)
parent company statements of cash flows for the year then
ended; and
– the notes on the financial statements, comprising material
accounting policy information and other explanatory Appointed First Current First year-
year-end year-end end
information.
following
Certain notes on the financial statements have been presented re-tender
We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the
from the financial statements and marked as ‘Audited’. These are
ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial
described further in note 1.1 (e) Presentation of information.
statements in the UK, which includes the FRC’s Ethical Standard, as
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Group Audit applicable to listed public interest entities, and the International Code
Committee (‘GAC’). of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including International
Independence Standards) issued by the International Ethics
Standards Board for Accountants (IESBA Code), and we have fulfilled
As explained in note 1.1(a) on the financial statements the Group and our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these
parent company have also applied International Financial Reporting requirements.
Standards (‘IFRS’) adopted pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit
as it applies in the European Union and IFRSs as issued by the
services prohibited by either the FRC’s Ethical Standard or Article 5(1)
International Accounting Standards Board (‘IASB’).
of Regulation (EU) No 537/2014 were not provided.
In our opinion, the Group and parent company financial statements
Other than those disclosed in note 6, we have provided no non-audit
have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted
services to the parent company or its controlled undertakings in the
pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 as it applies in the
period under audit.
European Union, and have been properly prepared in accordance with
IFRSs as issued by the IASB.

[PAGE 333]

Our audit approach
Overview
Audit scope Key audit matters
Our risk assessment and scoping identified six entities (collectively the
Expected credit losses – Loans and advances
‘Significant Components’) for which we obtained audit opinions.
to customers (Group)
We performed full scope audits of four Significant Components: The Hongkong and
Year on year:
Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, HSBC Holdings plc, HSBC Bank plc and
Consistent
HSBC UK Bank plc.
For two Significant Components, we obtained audit opinions over specific
Impairment of investment in associate – Bank
balances based on either the size or risk profile of those balances: HSBC North
of Communications Co., Ltd ('BoCom') (Group)
America Holdings Inc and HSBC Mexico S.A..
In addition, for a further three components, we performed audit work over centralised Year on year:
functions supporting specific balances. Consistent
Valuation of defined benefit pension
Specific audit procedures in relation to various Group activities, including IT general
obligations (Group)
controls, IT dependencies, forward looking economic scenarios for expected credit
losses (‘ECL’), operating expenses, intangible assets, payroll and consolidation were
Year on year:
performed by the Group team centrally.
Consistent
•••• •• •••
Investments in subsidiaries (parent company)
Year on year:
Consistent
4 2 3
full scope component components with audit components with audit
audits opinions over specific work over centralised
balances functions
Materiality
Overall Group materiality $1.5bn
Based on 5% of profit before tax excluding notable items.
Overall parent company materiality
$1.4bn
Based on 0.75% of total assets. This would result in an overall
materiality of $2.06bn and was therefore reduced below the
Group materiality.
Performance materiality
Group Parent
$1.1bn $1.1bn
Key audit matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors’ professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial
statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement (whether or not due to fraud)
identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy; the allocation of resources in the audit;
and directing the efforts of the engagement team. These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were
addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a
separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks or other matters identified by our audit. During our engagement with the GAC we also provided written
and verbal observations on other areas of accounting judgement including the valuation of financial instruments, legal proceedings and
regulatory matters, the impact of acquisitions and disposals, tax-related judgements and the related control considerations arising from our
audit.
The key audit matters below are consistent with last year, although the specific test plans have evolved to take account of developments at
HSBC and in its operating environment. Examples of HSBC specific developments included the change in CEO and the strategic initiatives
subsequently announced. Examples of operating environment changes include macro-economic developments in key markets and government
actions to manage economic conditions.
Financial
statements

[PAGE 334]

Independent auditors’ report to the members of HSBC Holdings plc
Expected credit losses - Loans and advances to customers (Group)
Background Procedures performed
to the Audited credit risk disclosures, Group Audit Committee Report, controls over the estimation of ECL. We observed management's
Note 1.2(d): Financial instruments measured at amortised cost and review and challenge in governance forums for (1) the determination
Note 1.2(i): Impairment of amortised cost and FVOCI financial assets. of economic scenarios and their probability weightings, and (2) the
assessment of ECL for Retail and Wholesale portfolios.
Determining ECL involves management judgement and is subject to a
high degree of estimation uncertainty. Management makes various We also tested controls over:
assumptions when estimating ECL. We performed a risk assessment
to identify those assumptions with significant levels of management – model validation and monitoring;
judgement and for which variations had the most material impact on – the identification of credit impaired triggers;
ECL.
– the input of critical data into source systems and the flow and
Assumptions were made in determining economic scenarios and their transformation of critical data from source systems to impairment
probability weightings (specifically the central and downside scenarios models; and
given these have the most material impact on ECL) and estimating
– approval of significant individual impairments.
discounted cash flows for significant credit impaired exposures in
relation to the mainland China commercial real estate portfolio. The We involved our economic experts in assessing the significant
level of estimation uncertainty and judgement in these areas has assumptions made in determining the severity and probability
remained elevated during 2024 as a result of continued uncertainties weighting of economic scenarios. These assessments considered the
in the macroeconomic and geopolitical environment and the higher sensitivity of ECL to variations in the severity and probability weighting
interest rate environment, as well as developments in mainland of economic scenarios. We also involved our modelling specialists in
China's commercial real estate sector and economy more broadly. assessing the appropriateness of the significant assumptions and
Macroeconomic conditions vary between territories and industry methodologies used for the ECL models. We independently re-
sectors, requiring judgement in determining the severity and performed the calculations for a sample of those models. In respect of
probability weighting of economic scenarios used in ECL models. the mainland China commercial real estate portfolio, we had oversight
of the audit work performed by our component team in Hong Kong.
The modelling methodologies used to estimate ECL are developed This work included involving business recovery experts in assessing
using historical experience. We assess the impact of limitations in the discounted cash flows for a sample of significant credit impaired
these methodologies when forecasting the extent and timing of exposures. We further considered whether the judgements made in
future customer defaults or when responding to emerging risks, such selecting the significant assumptions would give rise to indicators of
as climate risk. The focus of our assessment of the impact of climate possible management bias.
risk on ECL was to evaluate management’s risk assessment process
for identifying, quantifying and concluding that the impact of climate We evaluated management’s risk assessment in respect of the impact
risk on ECL for the year end was immaterial. of climate change on the ECL provision, including involving our
modelling specialists to evaluate the stress testing and scenario analysis
methodology used and sensitising key assumptions. Finally, we tested
Overall, we found the ECL on loans and advances to customers to be
reasonable.
Observations discussed with the Group Audit Committee
We reported to the GAC our observations covering governance and controls, the assumptions used and the modelling methodologies
implemented by management in determining ECL, with a significant focus on the uncertain prevailing macroeconomic conditions and
developments in mainland China's commercial real estate sector. Our observations regarded:
– the severity of economic scenarios, and their related probability weightings, across territories;
– significant assumptions used to estimate the discounted cash flow projections for defaulted exposures in relation to the mainland China
commercial real estate portfolio; and
– the disclosures made in relation to ECL.

[PAGE 335]

Impairment of investment in associate - Bank of Communications Co., Ltd ('BoCom') (Group)
Background Procedures performed
to the Group Audit Committee Report, Note 1.2(a): Consolidation and audit team in Hong Kong in relation to the impairment indicator
related policies and Note 18: Interests in associates and joint assessment of BoCom. This work included:
ventures.
– testing controls in place over the significant assumptions, the
investment in BoCom, the carrying value of which amounted to used in the impairment indicator assessment, assessing the
$22.4bn at 31 December 2024. The estimation uncertainty related to appropriateness of the methodology used, its application, and the
the investment remained high in 2024 and further policy mathematical accuracy of the calculations;
announcements were made in relation to fiscal stimulus packages by
– challenging the appropriateness of the significant assumptions
the government in China.
and, where relevant, their interrelationships;
The carrying value is required to be assessed for indicators of – obtaining evidence to corroborate and challenge the data
potential further impairment and reversal of previous impairment. No supporting significant assumptions, which included past
indicators of further impairment or reversal of previous impairment in experience, external market information, third-party sources
the investment in BoCom have been identified at 31 December 2024. including analyst reports, information from BoCom management
and historical publicly available BoCom financial information;
Management’s assessment of impairment or reversal of previous
impairment indicators is supported by an estimation of the – determining an independent reasonable range for the discount
recoverable amount using a value in use (‘VIU’) model. The VIU model rate assumption, with the assistance of our valuation experts, and
estimates future cash flows expected to be derived from the comparing it to the discount rate used by management;
investment in BoCom in its current condition and does not reflect the
– assessing whether the judgements made in determining the
impact of future capital transactions. The VIU model continues to be a
significant assumptions would give rise to indicators of possible
permissible method to estimate the recoverable amount.
management bias;
The methodology applied in the VIU model is dependent on various – attending certain meetings alongside management and BoCom
assumptions, both short to medium term and long term in nature. management to identify facts and circumstances impacting
These assumptions, which are subject to estimation uncertainty, are significant assumptions relevant to the determination of the VIU;
derived from a combination of management's judgement, analysts' and
forecasts, market data or other relevant information.
– evaluating and testing the disclosures in relation to BoCom in the
greater levels of management judgement and subjectivity, and for Representations were obtained from management that assumptions
which variations had the most significant impact on the VIU. used were consistent with information currently available to the
Specifically, these significant assumptions included: Group.
– the discount rate; Overall, we found management’s assessment of impairment, or
– short to medium term assumptions for operating income growth reversal of previous impairment, indicators to be reasonable.
rate, loans and advances to customers growth rate, cost-income
ratio, and expected credit losses as a percentage of loans and
advances to customers;
– long-term assumptions for profit growth rate, asset growth rate,
expected credit losses as a percentage of loans and advances to
customers, and effective tax rates; and
– capital related assumptions (risk-weighted assets as a percentage
of total assets and capital adequacy ratios).
Observations discussed with the Group Audit Committee
We reported to the GAC our observations on the appropriateness of the methodology, the consistency of its application period over period
and significant assumptions. This included our observations regarding management’s approach to ongoing impairment monitoring including
whether there are indicators of further impairment or reversal to previous impairment, the appropriateness of significant assumptions used
in the VIU, and the disclosures made in relation to BoCom, including the use of sensitivity analysis to explain estimation uncertainty.
Financial
statements

[PAGE 336]

Independent auditors’ report to the members of HSBC Holdings plc
Valuation of defined benefit pension obligations (Group)
Background Procedures performed
the Group Audit Committee Report, Note 1.2(k): Employee audit team in the UK in relation to the valuation of the defined benefit
compensation and benefits and Note 5: Employee compensation and obligation. This work included:
benefits.
– assessing the design and testing the effectiveness of controls in
The Group has a defined benefit obligation of US$24.0bn, of which place over methodologies and significant assumptions, including in
US$17.2bn relates to HSBC Bank (UK) pension scheme ('the principal the use of management's experts.
plan').
– evaluating the objectivity and competence of management's
The valuation of the defined benefit obligation for the principal plan is expert involved in the valuation of the principal plan’s defined
dependent on a number of actuarial assumptions. Management uses an benefit obligation.
actuarial expert to determine the valuation of the defined benefit
– engaging actuarial experts to understand the judgements made by
obligations. The valuation methodology uses a number of market based
management and their actuarial expert in determining the
inputs and other financial and demographic assumptions. The significant
significant assumptions, and comparing these assumptions to
assumptions that we focused our audit on were those with greater
independently compiled expected ranges based on market
levels of management judgement and for which variations had the most
observable indices and the knowledge and opinions of experts.
significant impact on the liability. Specifically, these included the
discount rate, inflation rate and mortality rate. – evaluating and testing the appropriateness of disclosures made in
Overall, we found the valuation of the defined benefit pension
obligations to be reasonable.
Observations discussed with the Group Audit Committee
We reported to the GAC our observations covering governance and controls, the assumptions used and the methodologies implemented by
management in determining the valuation of the defined benefit obligations with a significant focus on discount, inflation and mortality rates.
Investments in subsidiaries (parent company)
Background Procedures performed
to the Group Audit Committee Report, Note 1.2(a): Consolidation and place over significant assumptions and the model used to determine
related policies and Note 19: Investments in subsidiaries the recoverable amount. We assessed the appropriateness of the
methodology used, and tested the mathematical accuracy of the
Management reviewed the carrying values of the investments in
calculations, to estimate the recoverable amounts.
subsidiaries to evaluate whether any adjustment was required,
including additional consideration for impacts resulting from the In respect of the significant assumptions, our testing included the
announced organisational changes and strategic refocus. Where following:
indicators have been identified management estimated the
– challenging management's business plan, including the impacts
recoverable amount using the higher of value in use ('VIU') or fair
resulting from the announced organisational restructure, as well as
value less cost to sell.
considering the achievement of historic forecasts;
Management’s assessment resulted in an impairment charge of
– obtaining and evaluating evidence relating to significant
US$11.4bn in relation to the investment in HSBC Overseas Holdings
assumptions, from a combination of historical experience and
(UK) Limited.
external market and other financial information;
The methodology used to estimate the recoverable amount is – assessing whether the cash flows included in the model were in
dependent on various assumptions. These assumptions, which are compliance with the relevant accounting standard;
subject to estimation uncertainty, are derived from a combination of
– assessing the sensitivity of the recoverable amount to reasonable
management's judgement, experts engaged by management and
variations in significant assumptions, both individually and in
market data. The significant assumptions that we focused our audit
aggregate; and
on were those with greater levels of management judgement and for
which variations had the most significant impact on the recoverable – determining a reasonable range for the discount rate used within
amount. Specifically, these included the relevant business plan, long the model, with the assistance of our valuation experts, and
term growth rates, discount rates, and the impact of HSBC’s strategy comparing it to the discount rate used by management.
on those cash flows.
We also evaluated and tested the disclosures made in the Annual
Report in relation to investment in subsidiaries (Note 19).
Overall, we found management’s impairment assessment in relation
to the investment in HSBC Overseas Holdings (UK) Limited to be
reasonable.
Observations discussed with the Group Audit Committee
We reported to the GAC our observations covering governance and controls, the assumptions used and the methodologies implemented by
management in determining the impairment charge for the HSBC Overseas Holdings (UK) Limited investment, with a significant focus on
the relevant business plan for FY25 to FY29, discount rates, long term growth rates, and the impact of HSBC's strategy on those forecast
cash flows.

[PAGE 337]

How we tailored the audit scope
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a
whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the parent company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in
which they operate.
A focus on risk factors
The risks that HSBC faces are diverse, with the interdependencies between them being numerous and complex. In performing our risk
assessment we engaged with a number of stakeholders to ensure we appropriately understood and considered these risks and their
interrelationships. This included stakeholders within HSBC and our own experts within PwC. This engagement covered external factors across
the geopolitical, macroeconomic, regulatory and accounting landscape, and the impact of climate risk. It also covered the strategy and
transformation-driven internal environment at HSBC, with particular attention to the announced Group reorganisation. The impact of this
reorganisation on financial reporting will primarily be in later reporting periods.
Scoping
The risks of material misstatement can be reduced to an acceptable level by testing the entities that are significant due to their size and those
that drive particular significant risks identified as part of our risk assessment. We continually assessed risks and changed the scope of our audit
where necessary. Our risk assessment and scoping identified certain entities (collectively the 'Significant Components') for which we obtained
audit opinions.
Audit opinions
Full scope over specific
audit opinion balances
HSBC Holdings plc* u
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited** u
HSBC Bank plc** u
HSBC UK Bank plc* u
HSBC North America Holdings Inc** u
HSBC Mexico S.A.* u
* Opinion for the company financial position and performance.
** Opinion for the consolidated financial position and performance.
We instructed other PwC network firms to perform the audits of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, HSBC North
America Holdings Inc and HSBC Mexico S.A.. The audits for HSBC Bank plc and HSBC UK Bank plc were performed by PwC teams in the UK,
who themselves then instructed other PwC network firms to perform work in certain areas.
We also performed audit work over centralised functions supporting specific balances in other components. These components are HSBC Global
Services (UK) Limited, HSBC Group Management Services Limited, and HSBC Global Services (HK) Limited. This work was performed by PwC teams
in the UK.
Significant Components audit approach
We instructed the component auditors reporting to us on the Significant Components to work to assigned materiality levels reflecting the size
of the operations they audited. Certain Significant Component auditors performed their work to a local statutory audit materiality that was a
lower level than our allocated Group materiality.
We designed global audit approaches for the products and services that substantially make up HSBC's global businesses, such as lending,
deposits and derivatives. These approaches were provided to the engagement partners and teams performing audit testing for the Significant
Components.
We were in active dialogue throughout the year with the component auditors of the Significant Components, including directing how they
planned and performed their work. Senior members of our team undertook at least one in-person site visit where a full scope audit was
requested and we had oversight over certain areas of audit work performed. We attended Audit Committee meetings for some of the
Significant Components. We also attended meetings with management for each of these Significant Components at the year end.
In planning and executing our oversight plan, we considered where reliance was placed on PwC network firms to perform a full scope audit.
Given the relative financial significance of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited to the Group, we concluded this
component required a full scope audit. As a result, we placed specific focus on the direction, supervision and review of the work performed by
our teams in Hong Kong and China. The frequency of dialogue with these teams was substantial throughout all stages of our audit, we also;
performed additional site visits with component auditors and management, held workshops in several areas where their work supported the
Group audit and increased the nature and extent of review over the audit work performed by these teams.
Overall coverage Net operating income Total assets
The components where
we performed audit procedures
covered approximately:
72% 82%
Financial
statements

[PAGE 338]

Independent auditors’ report to the members of HSBC Holdings plc
Group-wide audit approach
HSBC has entity level controls that have a pervasive influence across the Group, as well as other global and regional governance and controls
over aspects of financial reporting, such as those operated by the Global Risk function for expected credit losses. A significant amount of IT and
operational processes and controls relevant to financial reporting are undertaken in operations centres run by Digital Business Services ('DBS').
Whilst these operations centres are not separate components, the IT and operational processes and controls are relevant to the financial
information of the Components. Financial reporting processes and controls are also performed centrally in HSBC's Group Finance function and
finance operation centres ('Finance Operations'), including the impairment assessment of goodwill and intangible assets, held for sale
classifications and the consolidation of the Group's results, the preparation of financial statements, and management's oversight controls
relevant to the Group's financial reporting.
Group-wide processes or processes in DBS and Finance Operations are subject to specified audit procedures or an audit over specific financial
statement line items. For these areas, we either performed audit work ourselves, or directed and provided oversight of the audit work
performed by PwC teams in the UK, Poland, China, Malaysia, India, France, Hong Kong and the Philippines. This audit work, together with
analytical review procedures and assessing the outcome of local external audits, also addressed the risk of material misstatement for balances
in entities that were not part of a Significant Component.
Materiality
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality. These, together
with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the
individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the
financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows:
Group Parent Company
Overall materiality $1.5bn $1.4bn
(FY23 $1.6bn) (FY23 $1.5bn)
How we 5% 0.75%
determined it
of profit before tax adjusted for notable items of total assets then capped to 95% of the group materiality.
Rationale for We believe a benchmark based on 5% of profit before tax A benchmark of total assets has been used, as the parent
benchmark applied excluding notable items is an appropriate quantitative indicator of company's primary purpose is to act as a holding parent company
materiality, although certain items could also be material for with investments in the Group's subsidiaries, not to generate
qualitative reasons. This benchmark is consistent with our operating profits and therefore a profit-based measure is not
approach for listed entities. relevant.
Performance $1.1bn $1.1bn
materiality
(FY23 $1.2bn) (FY23 $1.1bn)
How we 75% 75%
determined it
of overall materiality of overall materiality
Level above which $75m $75m
we report to the
Group Audit
Committee
(FY23 $80m) (FY23 $80m)
We agreed we would also report misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
For each Significant Component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality. The
range of materiality allocated across components was between $0.1bn and $1.4bn.
We use performance materiality to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected
misstatements exceeds overall materiality. Specifically, we use performance materiality in determining the scope of our audit and the nature
and extent of our testing of account balances, classes of transactions and disclosures, for example in determining sample sizes.
In determining the performance materiality, we considered a number of factors – the history of misstatements, risk assessment and
aggregation risk and the effectiveness of controls – and concluded that an amount at the upper end of our normal range was appropriate.

[PAGE 339]

The impact of climate risk on our audit
In considering the impact of climate risk on our audit, we:
Made enquiries of management to understand the extent of the potential impact of climate risk on the financial statements and we
remained alert when performing our audit procedures for any indicators of the impact of climate risk.
Evaluated and challenged management's assessment of the impact of climate risk, set out on page 43, which includes the potential
impact on ECL, classification and measurement of financial instruments, goodwill and other intangible assets, and assumptions
used in making the long-term viability statement and going concern assumption.
disclosures are materially consistent with the financial statements and our knowledge from our audit. Our responsibility over other
information is further described in the Reporting on other information section of our report.
Our procedures did not identify any material incremental adjustments needed to capture climate impacts on the Group and parent company
financial statements.
Our ability to detect irregularities, including fraud, and our response
Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We design procedures in line with our responsibilities,
outlined below, to detect material misstatements in respect of irregularities, including fraud. The extent to which our procedures are capable of
detecting irregularities, including fraud, is detailed below.
Based on our understanding of the Group and industry, we identified that the principal risks of non-compliance with laws and regulations
related to breaches of financial crime laws and regulations and regulatory compliance, including regulatory reporting requirements and conduct
of business, and we considered the extent to which non-compliance might have a material effect on the financial statements. We also
considered those laws and regulations that have a direct impact on the financial statements such as the Companies Act 2006 and relevant tax
legislation. We evaluated management’s incentives and opportunities for fraudulent manipulation of the financial statements (including the risk
of override of controls) and determined that the principal risks were related to posting inappropriate journal entries in relation to cost targets,
and management bias in accounting estimates, particularly those related to the valuation of certain financial instruments. The Group
engagement team shared this risk assessment with the component auditors so that they could include appropriate audit procedures in
response to such risks in their work.
Audit procedures performed by the Group engagement team and/or component auditors included:
Review of correspondence with and reports from regulators, including the Prudential Regulation Authority ('PRA') and Financial
Conduct Authority ('FCA').
Review of reporting to the GAC and the Group Risk Committee in respect of compliance and legal matters.
Enquiry of management and those charged with governance, and review of internal audit reports insofar as they related to the
financial statements.
Obtaining legal confirmations from legal advisors relating to material litigation and compliance matters.
Assessing matters reported on the Group's whistleblowing programmes and the results of management's investigation of such
matters, insofar as they related to the financial statements.
Challenging assumptions and judgements made by management in its significant accounting estimates, in particular in relation to
the determination of the valuation of certain financial instruments, ECL, and the impairment assessment of investment in
subsidiaries.
Obtaining confirmations from third parties to confirm the existence of a sample of transactions and balances.
Identifying and testing journal entries, including those posted with certain descriptions, posted to certain account combinations, or
posted by unexpected users.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above. We are less likely to become aware of instances of non-compliance with
laws and regulations that are not closely related to events and transactions reflected in the financial statements. Also, the risk of not detecting
a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate
concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
Our audit testing might include testing complete populations of certain transactions and balances, possibly using data auditing techniques.
However, it typically involves selecting a limited number of items for testing, rather than testing complete populations. We will often seek to
target particular items for testing based on their size or risk characteristics. In other cases, we will use audit sampling to enable us to draw a
conclusion about the population from which the sample is selected.
Financial
statements

[PAGE 340]

Independent auditors’ report to the members of HSBC Holdings plc
Conclusions relating to going concern Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any
material uncertainties relating to events or conditions that, individually
or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the Group's and the
Our evaluation of the directors’ assessment of the Group's and
parent company’s ability to continue as a going concern for a period
the parent company’s ability to continue to adopt the going
of at least twelve months from when the financial statements are
concern basis of accounting included:
authorised for issue.
Performing a risk assessment to identify factors that
could impact the going concern basis of accounting, In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the
including both internal risks (e.g. strategy execution) and directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting in the
external risks (e.g. macroeconomic conditions). preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.
Understanding and evaluating the Group's financial However, because not all future events or conditions can be
forecasts. predicted, this conclusion is not a guarantee as to the Group's and
Understanding and evaluating the Group's stress testing the parent company's ability to continue as a going concern.
of liquidity and regulatory capital, including the severity of
In relation to the directors’ reporting on how they have applied the UK
the stress scenarios that were used.
Corporate Governance Code, we have nothing material to add or
Understanding and evaluating credit rating agency ratings draw attention to in relation to the directors’ statement in the
and actions. financial statements about whether the directors considered it
appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting.
Reading and evaluating the adequacy of the disclosures
made in the financial statements in relation to going Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the directors with
concern. respect to going concern are described in the relevant sections of this
report.
Reporting on other information
The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual With respect to the Strategic report and Report of the Directors, we
Report other than the financial statements and our auditors’ report also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK
thereon. The directors are responsible for the other information. Our Companies Act 2006 have been included. Based on our work
opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006
information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, requires us also to report certain opinions and matters as described
except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any below.
form of assurance thereon.
Strategic report and Report of the
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our
responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, Directors
consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the
the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or
audit, the information given in the Strategic report and Report of the
otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we identify an
Directors for the year ended 31 December 2024 is consistent with
apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are
the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with
required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a
applicable legal requirements.
material misstatement of the financial statements or a material
misstatement of the other information. If, based on the work we In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and parent
have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit,
of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic report
nothing to report based on these responsibilities. and Report of the Directors.
Where PwC has provided independent assurance over other parts of Directors' Remuneration
a separate assurance report and does not fall within the scope of this In our opinion, the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be
audit report. audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 2006.

[PAGE 341]

Corporate governance statement
The Listing Rules require us to review the directors’ statements in Our review of the directors’ statement regarding the longer-term
relation to going concern, longer-term viability and that part of the viability of the Group and parent company was substantially less in
corporate governance statement relating to the parent company’s scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and
compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance considering the directors’ process supporting their statement;
Code specified for our review. Our additional responsibilities with checking that the statement is in alignment with the relevant
respect to the corporate governance statement as other information provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code; and considering
are described in the Reporting on other information section of this whether the statement is consistent with the financial statements
report. and our knowledge and understanding of the Group and parent
company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Based on the work undertaken as part of our audit, we have
concluded that each of the following elements of the corporate In addition, based on the work undertaken as part of our audit, we
governance statement is materially consistent with the financial have concluded that each of the following elements of the corporate
statements and our knowledge obtained during the audit, and we governance statement is materially consistent with the financial
have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: statements and our knowledge obtained during the audit:
assessment of the emerging and principal risks; taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and
provides the information necessary for the members to assess
the Group’s and parent company's position, performance,
risks, what procedures are in place to identify emerging risks and
business model and strategy;
an explanation of how these are being managed or mitigated;
– The directors’ statement in the financial statements about
effectiveness of risk management and internal control systems;
whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern
and
basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of
ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months
We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report
from the date of approval of the financial statements;
when the directors’ statement relating to the parent company’s
– The directors’ explanation as to their assessment of the Group's compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure
and parent company’s prospects, the period this assessment from a relevant provision of the Code specified under the Listing
covers and why the period is appropriate; and Rules for review by the auditors.
– The directors’ statement as to whether they have a reasonable
expectation that the parent company will be able to continue in
operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of
its assessment, including any related disclosures drawing
attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit
Responsibilities of the Directors for assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in
accordance with ISAs (UK) and ISAs will always detect a material
the financial statements misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or
error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate,
As explained more fully in the Directors' responsibility statement, the
they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic
directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial
decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for
being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. The directors are A further description of our responsibilities for
also responsible for such internal control as they determine is the audit of the financial statements
necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are (encompassing our responsibilities under ISAs
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. and our additional responsibilities under ISAs
(UK)) is located on the FRC’s website at
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This
assessing the Group’s and the parent company’s ability to continue
description forms part of our auditors’ report.
as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going
concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Use of this report
directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent company
or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so. This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for
the parent company’s members as a body in accordance with
Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other
purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume
of the financial statements
responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom
this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement,
whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that
includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of
Financial
statements

[PAGE 342]

Independent auditors’ report to the members of HSBC Holdings plc
Other required reporting Other matter
Companies Act 2006 exception The company is required by the Financial Conduct Authority
Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules to include these
reporting financial statements in an annual financial report prepared under the
structured digital format required by DTR 4.1.15R - 4.1.18R and filed
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in
on the National Storage Mechanism of the Financial Conduct
our opinion:
Authority. This auditors’ report provides no assurance over whether
– we have not obtained all the information and explanations we the structured digital format annual financial report has been prepared
require for our audit; or in accordance with those requirements.
– adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been
received from branches not visited by us; or
– certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are
not made; or
– the parent company financial statements and the part of the
Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited are not in Matthew Falconer (Senior Statutory Auditor)
agreement with the accounting records and returns. for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP Chartered
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. Accountants and Statutory Auditors London
19 February 2025

[PAGE 343]

Financial statements
Consolidated income statement
for the year ended 31 December 2024
2024 2023 2022
Notes* $m $m $m
Net interest income 32,733 35,796 30,377
– interest income1,2 108,631 100,868 52,826
– interest expense3 (75,898) (65,072) (22,449)
Net fee income 2 12,301 11,845 11,770
– fee income 16,266 15,616 15,124
– fee expense (3,965) (3,771) (3,354)
Net income from financial instruments held for trading or managed on a fair value basis4 3 21,116 16,661 10,278
Net income/(expense) from assets and liabilities of insurance businesses, including related derivatives,
measured at fair value through profit or loss 3 5,901 7,887 (13,831)
Insurance finance (expense)/income 4 (5,978) (7,809) 13,799
Insurance service result 4 1,310 1,078 809
– insurance revenue 2,752 2,259 1,977
– insurance service expense (1,442) (1,181) (1,168)
Gain on acquisition5 — 1,591 —
Gains/(losses) recognised on sale of business operations6 (1,752) (61) (2,678)
Other operating income/(expense)7 223 (930) 96
Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges8 65,854 66,058 50,620
Change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges (3,414) (3,447) (3,584)
Net operating income 62,440 62,611 47,036
Employee compensation and benefits 5 (18,465) (18,220) (18,003)
General and administrative expenses (10,498) (10,383) (10,848)
Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment and right-of-use assets9 (1,845) (1,640) (2,149)
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets (2,235) (1,827) (1,701)
Total operating expenses (33,043) (32,070) (32,701)
Operating profit 29,397 30,541 14,335
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures 18 2,912 2,807 2,723
Impairment of interest in associate 18 — (3,000) —
Profit before tax 32,309 30,348 17,058
Tax expense 7 (7,310) (5,789) (809)
Profit for the year 24,999 24,559 16,249
Attributable to:
– ordinary shareholders of the parent company 22,917 22,432 14,346
– preference shareholders of the parent company — — —
– other equity holders 1,062 1,101 1,213
– non-controlling interests 1,020 1,026 690
Profit for the year 24,999 24,559 16,249
$ $ $
Basic earnings per ordinary share 9 1.25 1.15 0.72
Diluted earnings per ordinary share 9 1.24 1.14 0.72
For Notes on the financial statements, see page 353.
1 Interest income includes $93,388m (2023: $88,657m; 2022: $45,994m) of interest recognised on financial assets measured at amortised cost and $15,273m
(2023: $12,134m; 2022: $6,293m) of interest recognised on financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income. It also includes a net
$237m loss related to the early redemption of legacy securities.
2 Interest income is calculated using the effective interest method and comprises interest recognised on financial assets measured at either amortised cost or fair
value through other comprehensive income.
3 Interest expense includes $72,594m (2023: $62,095m; 2022: $20,798m) of interest on financial instruments, excluding interest on debt instruments issued by
HSBC for funding purposes that are designated under the fair value option to reduce an accounting mismatch and on derivatives managed in conjunction with
those debt instruments included in interest expense.
4 Includes a $255m gain (2023: $315m loss) on the foreign exchange hedging of the proceeds from the sale of our banking business in Canada and a $114m
mark-to-market gain (2023:nil) on interest rate hedging of the portfolio of retained loans post sale of our retail banking business in France.
5 Gain recognised in respect of the acquisition of SVB UK.
this line item only reflected the disposal of our France retail banking business. The amount in 2024 includes a $1.0bn loss on disposal and a $5.2bn loss on the recycling
in foreign currency translation reserve losses and other reserves arising on sale of our business in Argentina. This was partly offset by a gain of $4.6bn, inclusive of the
recycling of $0.6bn in foreign currency translation reserve losses and $0.4bn of other reserves losses but excluding the $255m gain on the foreign exchange hedging
(see footnote 4 above) on the sale of our banking business in Canada. The amount in 2023 primarily reflected losses due to restrictions impacting the recoverability of
assets in Russia, partly offset by a gain on sale of our retail banking operations in France. The amount in 2022 included losses from classifying businesses as held for
sale as part of a broader restructuring of our European business.
7 Other operating income/(expense) includes a loss on net monetary positions of $1,187m (2023: $1,667m; 2022: $678m) as a result of applying IAS 29 ‘Financial
Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies’.
8 Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges also referred to as revenue.
9 Includes depreciation of the right-of-use assets of $711m (2023: $663m; 2022: $717m).
Financial
statements

[PAGE 344]

Financial statements
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
for the year ended 31 December 2024
2024 2023 2022
$m $m $m
Profit for the year 24,999 24,559 16,249
Other comprehensive income/(expense)
Items that will be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss when specific conditions are met:
Debt instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income 163 2,599 (7,232)
– fair value gains/(losses) 41 2,381 (9,618)
– fair value losses/(gains) transferred to the income statement on disposal 69 905 (18)
– expected credit (recoveries)/losses recognised in the income statement (6) 59 56
– disposal of subsidiary 85 — —
– income taxes (26) (746) 2,348
Cash flow hedges (52) 2,953 (3,655)
– fair value gains/(losses) (282) 2,534 (4,207)
– fair value (gains)/losses reclassified to the income statement (135) 1,463 (758)
– disposal of subsidiary 262 — —
– income taxes 103 (1,044) 1,310
Share of other comprehensive income/(expense) of associates and joint ventures 462 47 (367)
– share for the year 462 47 (367)
Net finance income/(expenses) from insurance contracts (142) (364) 1,775
– before income taxes (191) (491) 2,393
– income taxes 49 127 (618)
Exchange differences 833 (204) (9,918)
– foreign exchange losses reclassified to the income statement on disposal of a foreign operation 5,816 — —
– other exchange differences (4,983) (204) (9,918)
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
Fair value gains on property revaluation 5 1 280
Remeasurement of defined benefit asset/(liability) (228) (314) (1,031)
– before income taxes (342) (413) (1,723)
– income taxes 114 99 692
Changes in fair value of financial liabilities designated at fair value upon initial recognition arising from changes in
own credit risk (439) (1,219) 1,922
– before income taxes (579) (1,617) 2,573
– income taxes 140 398 (651)
Equity instruments designated at fair value through other comprehensive income 99 (120) 107
– fair value gains/(losses) 141 (120) 107
– income taxes (42) — —
Effects of hyperinflation 1,239 1,604 877
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year, net of tax 1,940 4,983 (17,242)
Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the year 26,939 29,542 (993)
Attributable to:
– ordinary shareholders of the parent company 24,833 27,397 (2,810)
– other equity holders 1,062 1,101 1,213
– non-controlling interests 1,044 1,044 604
Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the year 26,939 29,542 (993)

[PAGE 345]

Consolidated balance sheet
at 31 December 2024
At
31 Dec 2024 31 Dec 2023
Notes* $m $m
Assets
Cash and balances at central banks 267,674 285,868
Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness 42,293 42,024
Trading assets 11 314,842 289,159
Financial assets designated and otherwise mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss 14 115,769 110,643
Derivatives 15 268,637 229,714
Loans and advances to banks 102,039 112,902
Loans and advances to customers 930,658 938,535
Reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading 252,549 252,217
Financial investments 16 493,166 442,763
Assets held for sale 23 27,234 114,134
Prepayments, accrued income and other assets1 22 152,740 171,597
Current tax assets 1,313 1,536
Interests in associates and joint ventures 18 28,909 27,344
Goodwill and intangible assets 21 12,384 12,487
Deferred tax assets 7 6,841 7,754
Total assets 3,017,048 3,038,677
Liabilities
Hong Kong currency notes in circulation 42,293 42,024
Deposits by banks 73,997 73,163
Customer accounts 1,654,955 1,611,647
Repurchase agreements – non-trading 180,880 172,100
Trading liabilities 24 65,982 73,150
Financial liabilities designated at fair value 25 138,727 141,426
Derivatives 15 264,448 234,772
Debt securities in issue 26 105,785 93,917
Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale 23 29,011 108,406
Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities1 27 130,340 143,901
Current tax liabilities 1,729 2,777
Insurance contract liabilities 4 107,629 120,851
Provisions 28 1,724 1,741
Deferred tax liabilities 7 1,317 1,238
Subordinated liabilities 29 25,958 24,954
Total liabilities 2,824,775 2,846,067
Equity
Called up share capital 32 8,973 9,631
Share premium account 32 14,810 14,738
Other equity instruments 19,070 17,719
Other reserves (10,282) (8,907)
Retained earnings 152,402 152,148
Total shareholders’ equity 184,973 185,329
Non-controlling interests 19 7,300 7,281
Total equity 192,273 192,610
Total liabilities and equity 3,017,048 3,038,677
* For Notes on the financial statements, see page 353.
1 In 2023 ‘Items in the course of collection from other banks’ ($6.3bn) were presented on the face of the balance sheet but are now reported within
banks’ ($7.3bn) are now presented within ‘Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities’.
The accompanying notes on pages 353 to 438 and the audited sections in the Risk review on pages 126 to 235 and ‘Directors’ remuneration
report’ on pages 279 to 317 form an integral part of these financial statements.
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 19 February 2025 and signed on its behalf by:
Sir Mark E Tucker Pam Kaur
Group Chairman Group Chief Financial Officer
Financial
statements

[PAGE 346]

Financial statements
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 December 2024
Other reserves
Called up Merger
share Other Financial Cash and Total
capital equity assets at flow Foreign other Insurance Retained share- Non-
and share instru- FVOCI hedging exchange reserves finance earnings holders’ controlling Total
premium ments reserve reserve reserve 1,2 reserve3 1,4 equity interests equity
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
At 1 Jan 2024 24,369 17,719 (3,507) (1,033) (33,753) 28,601 785 152,148 185,329 7,281 192,610
Profit for the year — — — — — — — 23,979 23,979 1,020 24,999
Other comprehensive income
(net of tax) — — 259 (46) 863 5 (183) 1,018 1,916 24 1,940
– debt instruments at fair value
through other
comprehensive income — — 62 — — — — — 62 16 78
– equity instruments
designated at fair value
through other
comprehensive income — — 75 — — — — — 75 24 99
– cash flow hedges — — — (312) — — — — (312) (2) (314)
– changes in fair value of
financial liabilities designated
at fair value upon initial
recognition arising from
changes in own credit risk — — — — — — — (439) (439) — (439)
– property revaluation — — — — — 5 — — 5 — 5
– remeasurement of defined
benefit asset/liability — — — — — — — (244) (244) 16 (228)
– share of other
comprehensive income of
associates and joint ventures — — — — — — — 462 462 — 462
– effects of hyperinflation — — — — — — — 1,239 1,239 — 1,239
– foreign exchange reclassified
to income statement on
disposal of a foreign
operation5 — — — — 5,816 — — — 5,816 — 5,816
– other reserves reclassified to
income statement on
disposal of a foreign
operation — — 85 262 — — — — 347 — 347
– insurance finance income/
(expense) recognised in
other comprehensive income — — — — — — (142) — (142) — (142)
– exchange differences — — 37 4 (4,953) — (41) — (4,953) (30) (4,983)
Total comprehensive income
for the year — — 259 (46) 863 5 (183) 24,997 25,895 1,044 26,939
Shares issued under employee
remuneration and share plans 77 — — — — — — (77) — — —
Capital securities issued6 — 3,601 — — — — — — 3,601 — 3,601
Dividends to shareholders — — — — — — — (16,410) (16,410) (690) (17,100)
Redemption of securities7 — (2,250) — — — — — — (2,250) — (2,250)
Transfers8 — — — — — (2,945) — 2,945 — — —
Cost of share-based payment
arrangements — — — — — — — 529 529 — 529
Share buy-back9 — — — — — — — (11,043) (11,043) — (11,043)
Cancellation of shares (663) — — — — 663 — — — — —
Other movements — — 2 — 3 4 — (687) (678) (335) (1,013)
At 31 Dec 2024 23,783 19,070 (3,246) (1,079) (32,887) 26,328 602 152,402 184,973 7,300 192,273

[PAGE 347]

Consolidated statement of changes in equity (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2023
Other reserves
Called up Merger
share Other Financial Cash and Total
capital and equity assets at flow Foreign other Insurance Retained share- Non-
share instru- FVOCI hedging exchange reserves finance earnings holders’ controlling Total
premium ments reserve reserve reserve 1,2 reserve3 1,4 equity interests equity
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
At 1 Jan 2023 24,811 19,746 (7,038) (3,808) (32,575) 33,209 1,079 142,409 177,833 7,364 185,197
Profit for the year — — — — — — — 23,533 23,533 1,026 24,559
Other comprehensive income
(net of tax) — — 2,402 3,030 (211) 1 (371) 114 4,965 18 4,983
– debt instruments at fair value
through other
comprehensive income — — 2,574 — — — — — 2,574 25 2,599
– equity instruments
designated at fair value
through other
comprehensive income — — (93) — — — — — (93) (27) (120)
– cash flow hedges — — — 2,919 — — — — 2,919 34 2,953
– changes in fair value of
financial liabilities designated
at fair value upon initial
recognition arising from
changes in own credit risk — — — — — — — (1,220) (1,220) 1 (1,219)
– property revaluation — — — — — 1 — — 1 — 1
– remeasurement of defined
benefit asset/liability — — — — — — — (317) (317) 3 (314)
– share of other
comprehensive income of
associates and joint ventures — — — — — — 47 47 — 47
– effects of hyperinflation — — — — — — — 1,604 1,604 — 1,604
– insurance finance income/
(expense) recognised in
other comprehensive income — — — — — — (364) — (364) — (364)
– exchange differences — — (79) 111 (211) — (7) — (186) (18) (204)
Total comprehensive income
for the year — — 2,402 3,030 (211) 1 (371) 23,647 28,498 1,044 29,542
Shares issued under employee
remuneration and share plans 79 — — — — — — (79) — — —
Capital securities issued — 1,996 — — — — — — 1,996 — 1,996
Dividends to shareholders — — — — — — — (11,593) (11,593) (603) (12,196)
Redemption of securities — (4,023) — — — — — 20 (4,003) — (4,003)
Transfers8 — — — — — (5,130) — 5,130 — — —
Cost of share-based payment
arrangements — — — — — — — 482 482 — 482
Share buy-back — — — — — — — (7,025) (7,025) — (7,025)
Cancellation of shares (521) — — — — 521 — — — — —
Other movements — — 1,129 (255) (967) — 77 (843) (859) (524) (1,383)
At 31 Dec 2023 24,369 17,719 (3,507) (1,033) (33,753) 28,601 785 152,148 185,329 7,281 192,610
Financial
statements

[PAGE 348]

Financial statements
Consolidated statement of changes in equity (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2022
Other reserves
Called up Merger
share Other Financial Cash and Total
capital and equity assets at flow Foreign other Insurance Retained share- Non-
share instru- FVOCI hedging exchange reserves finance earnings holders’ controlling Total
premium ments reserve reserve reserve 1,2 reserve3 1,4 equity interests equity
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
At 1 Jan 2022 24,918 22,414 49 (197) (22,769) 30,060 (696) 135,236 189,015 7,303 196,318
Profit for the year — — — — — — — 15,559 15,559 690 16,249
Other comprehensive income
(net of tax) — — (7,089) (3,613) (9,806) 174 1,775 1,403 (17,156) (86) (17,242)
– debt instruments at fair value
through other
comprehensive income — — (7,181) — — — — — (7,181) (51) (7,232)
– equity instruments
designated at fair value
through other
comprehensive income — — 92 — — — — — 92 15 107
– cash flow hedges — — — (3,613) — — — — (3,613) (42) (3,655)
– changes in fair value of
financial liabilities designated
at fair value upon initial
recognition arising from
changes in own credit risk — — — — — — — 1,922 1,922 — 1,922
– property revaluation — — — — — 174 — — 174 106 280
– remeasurement of defined
benefit asset/liability — — — — — — — (1,029) (1,029) (2) (1,031)
– share of other
comprehensive income of
associates and joint ventures — — — — — — — (367) (367) — (367)
– effects of hyperinflation — — — — — — — 877 877 — 877
– insurance finance income/
(expense) recognised in
other comprehensive income — — — — — — 1,775 — 1,775 — 1,775
– exchange differences — — — — (9,806) — — — (9,806) (112) (9,918)
Total comprehensive income
for the year — — (7,089) (3,613) (9,806) 174 1,775 16,962 (1,597) 604 (993)
Shares issued under employee
remuneration and share plans 67 — — — — — — (67) — — —
Dividends to shareholders — — — — — — — (6,544) (6,544) (426) (6,970)
Redemption of securities — (2,668) — — — — — 402 (2,266) — (2,266)
Transfers8 — — — — — 2,499 — (2,499) — — —
Cost of share-based payment
arrangements — — — — — — — 400 400 — 400
Share buy-back — — — — — — — (1,000) (1,000) — (1,000)
Cancellation of shares (174) — — — — 174 — — — — —
Other movements — — 2 2 — 302 — (481) (175) (117) (292)
At 31 Dec 2022 24,811 19,746 (7,038) (3,808) (32,575) 33,209 1,079 142,409 177,833 7,364 185,197
1 Cumulative goodwill amounting to $5,138m was charged against reserves in respect of acquisitions of subsidiaries prior to 1 January 1998, including $3,469m
charged against the merger reserve arising on the acquisition of HSBC Bank plc. The balance of $1,669m was charged against retained earnings.
2 Statutory share premium relief under section 131 of the Companies Act 1985 was taken in respect of the acquisition of HSBC Bank plc in 1992,
HSBC Continental Europe in 2000 and HSBC Finance Corporation in 2003, and the shares issued were recorded at their nominal value only. In HSBC’s
consolidated financial statements, the fair value differences of $8,290m in respect of HSBC Continental Europe and $12,768m in respect of HSBC Finance
Corporation were recognised in the merger reserve. The merger reserve created on the acquisition of HSBC Finance Corporation subsequently became
attached to HSBC Overseas Holdings (UK) Limited, following a number of intra-Group reorganisations, and has since been transferred to retained earnings as
part of the impairment recognised in respect of HSBC Overseas Holding (UK) Limited. During 2009, pursuant to section 131 of the Companies Act 1985,
statutory share premium relief was taken in respect of the rights issue and $15,796m was recognised in the merger reserve.
3 The insurance finance reserve reflects the impact of the adoption of the other comprehensive income option for our insurance business in France. Underlying
assets supporting these contracts are measured at fair value through other comprehensive income. Under this option, only the amount that matches income or
expenses recognised in profit or loss on underlying items is included in finance income or expenses, resulting in the elimination of income statement accounting
mismatches. The remaining amount of finance income or expenses for these insurance contracts is recognised in other comprehensive income (‘OCI’).
4 At 31 December 2024, retained earnings included 28,744,609 own shares held. These include own shares held within HSBC’s insurance business’s retirement
funds for the benefit of policyholders or beneficiaries within employee trusts for the settlement of shares expected to be delivered under employee share
schemes or bonus plans, and the market-making activities in Markets and Securities Services.
5 At 31 December 2024, accumulated foreign currency translation reserve losses of $5,816m were recycled to the income statement, including $5,166m upon
completion of the sale of our business in Argentina and $564m upon completion of the sale of our banking business in Canada.
6 HSBC Holdings issued SGD1,500m 5.250% contingent convertible securities in June 2024, and a further $1,350m 6.875% and $1,150m 6.950% contingent
convertible securities in September 2024. All instruments were recorded net of issuance costs.
7 In September 2024, HSBC Holdings redeemed its $2,250m 6.375% contingent convertible securities.
8 At 31 December 2024, an impairment of $11,442m (2023: $5,512m) of HSBC Overseas Holdings (UK) Limited was recognised, resulting in a permitted transfer
of $2,945m (2023: $5,130m) from the remaining historical merger reserve to retained earnings, and a realisation of nil share-based payment reserve (2023:
$382m) within retained earnings. In 2022, a part-reversal of the impairment resulted in a transfer from retained earnings back to the merger reserve of $2,499m.
9 HSBC Holdings announced the following share buy-backs during the year: a share buy-back of up to $2.0bn in February 2024, which was completed in April
2024; a share buy-back of up to $3.0bn in April 2024, which was completed in July 2024; a share buy-back of up to $3.0bn in July 2024, which was completed in
October 2024; and a share buy-back of up to $3.0bn in October 2024, which was completed in February 2025.

[PAGE 349]

Consolidated statement of cash flows
for the year ended 31 December 2024
2024 2023 2022
$m $m $m
Profit before tax 32,309 30,348 17,058
Adjustments for non-cash items:
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 4,080 3,466 3,850
Net loss from investing activities 180 1,213 11
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures (2,912) (2,807) (2,723)
Impairment of interest in associate — 3,000 —
(Gain)/loss on acquisition/disposal of subsidiaries, businesses, associates and joint ventures 1,704 (1,775) 2,554
Change in expected credit losses gross of recoveries and other credit impairment charges 3,674 3,717 3,898
Provisions including pensions 299 266 638
Share-based payment expense 529 482 400
Other non-cash items included in profit before tax (5,290) (4,299) (774)
Elimination of exchange differences1 26,734 (10,678) 48,718
Changes in operating assets and liabilities
Change in net trading securities and derivatives (41,385) (63,247) 20,166
Change in loans and advances to banks and customers 7,275 (14,145) 31,649
Change in reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading (4,227) (2,095) (23,405)
Change in financial assets designated and otherwise mandatorily measured at fair value (20,662) (9,994) 14,164
Change in other assets2 7,685 (10,254) (12,858)
Change in deposits by banks and customer accounts 44,237 45,021 (91,194)
Change in repurchase agreements – non-trading 8,700 43,366 4,344
Change in debt securities in issue 11,942 11,945 12,518
Change in financial liabilities designated at fair value (2,248) 10,097 (13,654)
Change in other liabilities (1,603) 8,742 6,021
Dividends received from associates 1,062 1,067 944
Contributions paid to defined benefit plans (167) (208) (194)
Tax paid (6,611) (4,117) (2,776)
Net cash from operating activities 65,305 39,111 19,355
Purchase of financial investments2 (523,454) (563,561) (511,097)
Proceeds from the sale and maturity of financial investments2 453,502 504,174 492,624
Net cash flows from the purchase and sale of property, plant and equipment (1,344) (1,145) (1,284)
Net cash flows from disposal of loan portfolio and customer accounts — 623 (3,530)
Net investment in intangible assets (2,542) (2,550) (3,125)
Net cash inflow on acquisition/disposal of subsidiaries, businesses, associates and joint ventures3 9,891 1,239 —
Net cash outflow on acquisition/disposal of subsidiaries, businesses, associates and joint ventures4 (12,617) (1,692) (989)
Net cash from investing activities (76,564) (62,912) (27,401)
Issue of ordinary share capital and other equity instruments 3,602 1,996 —
Cancellation of shares (11,348) (5,812) (2,285)
Net purchases of own shares for market-making and investment purposes (541) (614) (91)
Net cash flow from change in stake of subsidiaries — (19) (197)
Redemption of preference shares and other equity instruments (3,433) (4,003) (2,266)
Subordinated loan capital issued 4,361 5,237 7,300
Subordinated loan capital repaid5 (2,000) (2,147) (1,777)
Dividends paid to shareholders of the parent company and non-controlling interests (17,100) (12,196) (6,970)
Net cash from financing activities (26,459) (17,558) (6,286)
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (37,718) (41,359) (14,332)
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 Jan 490,933 521,671 574,032
Exchange differences in respect of cash and cash equivalents (18,275) 10,621 (38,029)
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 Dec6 434,940 490,933 521,671
Financial
statements

[PAGE 350]

Financial statements
Consolidated statement of cash flows (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2024
2024 2023 2022
$m $m $m
Cash and cash equivalents comprise:
– cash and balances at central banks 267,674 285,868 327,002
– loans and advances to banks of one month or less 69,803 76,620 72,295
– reverse repurchase agreements with banks of one month or less 58,290 64,341 68,682
– treasury bills, other bills and certificates of deposit less than three months8 27,307 33,303 26,727
– cash collateral, net settlement accounts and items in course of collection from/transmission to other banks 9,827 14,866 18,878
– cash and cash equivalents held for sale7 2,039 15,935 8,087
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 Dec6 434,940 490,933 521,671
Interest received was $110,106m (2023: $98,910m; 2022: $55,664m), interest paid was $81,680m (2023: $65,980m; 2022: $22,856m) and
dividends received (excluding dividends received from associates, which are presented separately above) were $2,812m (2023: $1,869m; 2022:
$1,638m).
1 Adjustment to bring changes between opening and closing balance sheet amounts to average rates. This is not done on a line-by-line basis, as details cannot be
determined without unreasonable expense.
2 Post adoption of IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, certain assets have been reclassified from ‘Investing activities’ to ‘Operating activities’. The comparative data
for 2022 have not been re-presented.
3 This includes $9.3bn from the sale of our banking business in Canada.
4 This includes $10.6bn from the sale of our retail banking business in France and $1.8bn from the sale of our business in Argentina.
5 Subordinated liabilities changes during the year are attributable to repayments of $(2.0)bn (2023: $(2.1)bn; 2022: $(1.8)bn) of securities. Non-cash changes
during the year included foreign exchange gains/losses of $1.6bn gain (2023: $0.6bn loss; 2022: $1.1bn gain) and fair value gains/losses of $1.0bn gain (2023:
$0.8bn loss; 2022: $3.1bn gain).
6 At 31 December 2024, $50.4bn (2023: $61.8bn; 2022: $59.3bn) was not available for use by HSBC due to a range of restrictions, including currency exchange
and other restrictions.
7 Includes $1.9bn (2023: $5.6bn, 2022: $6.5bn) of cash and balances at central banks and $0.1bn (2023: $10.5bn, 2022: $0.2bn) of loans and advances to banks of
one month or less. There is nil balance in 2024 for reverse repurchase agreements with banks of one month or less (2023: $0.2bn, 2022: $1.3bn) and cash
collateral, net settlement accounts and items in course of collection from/transmission to other banks (2023: $(0.4)bn, 2022: $(0.2)bn).
8 The amount in this line is included in the ‘Financial investments’ and ‘Financial assets designated and otherwise mandatorily measured at fair value through profit
or loss’ line items in the Consolidated balance sheet on page 343.

[PAGE 351]

HSBC Holdings income statement
for the year ended 31 December 2024
2024 2023 2022
Notes* $m $m $m
Net interest expense (5,758) (5,339) (3,074)
– interest income 3,053 2,864 937
– interest expense (8,811) (8,203) (4,011)
Net fee (expense)/income (10) 2 (3)
Net income from financial instruments held for trading or managed on a fair value basis 3 2,899 1,063 2,129
Changes in fair value of designated debt and related derivatives1 3 (125) (1,468) 2,144
Changes in fair value of other financial instruments mandatorily measured at fair value through
profit or loss 3 2,086 3,692 (2,409)
Gains less losses from financial investments 2 45 58
Dividend income from subsidiaries3 33,846 16,824 9,478
Other operating income 276 332 91
Total operating income 33,216 15,151 8,414
Employee compensation and benefits 5 (29) (15) (41)
General and administrative expenses (1,148) (1,327) (1,586)
(Impairment) of subsidiaries/reversal of impairment3 19 (11,490) (5,574) 2,493
Total operating expenses (12,667) (6,916) 866
Profit before tax 20,549 8,235 9,280
Tax credit2,3 499 977 3,077
Profit for the year 21,048 9,212 12,357
* For Notes on the financial statements, see page 353.
1 The debt instruments, issued for funding purposes, are designated under the fair value option to reduce an accounting mismatch.
2 The tax credit in 2022 includes $2.2bn arising from the recognition of a deferred tax asset from historical tax losses in HSBC Holdings. This was a result of
improved profit forecasts for the UK tax group, which accelerated the expected utilisation of these losses and reduced uncertainty regarding their recoverability.
3 The amounts recorded within profit before tax with respect to dividend income from subsidiaries and impairment/reversal of impairment of subsidiaries are not
subject to tax.
HSBC Holdings statement of comprehensive income
for the year ended 31 December 2024
2024 2023 2022
$m $m $m
Profit for the year 21,048 9,212 12,357
Other comprehensive income/(expense)
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
Changes in fair value of financial liabilities designated at fair value upon initial recognition arising from changes
in own credit risk 21 (124) 326
– before income taxes 32 (166) 435
– income taxes (11) 42 (109)
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year, net of tax 21 (124) 326
Total comprehensive income for the year 21,069 9,088 12,683
Financial
statements

[PAGE 352]

Financial statements
HSBC Holdings balance sheet
31 Dec 2024 31 Dec 2023
Notes* $m $m
Assets
Cash and balances with HSBC undertakings 2,548 7,029
Financial assets with HSBC undertakings designated and otherwise mandatorily measured at fair value 61,286 59,879
Derivatives 15 3,054 3,344
Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings 37,677 27,354
Trading Assets 709 —
Financial investments 16 10,328 19,558
Prepayments, accrued income and other assets 4,353 5,341
Current tax assets 305 924
Investments in subsidiaries 19 152,337 159,478
Intangible assets 162 180
Deferred tax assets 1,498 2,082
Total assets at 31 Dec 274,257 285,169
Liabilities and equity
Liabilities
Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings 231 168
Financial liabilities designated at fair value 25 41,582 43,638
Derivatives 15 5,340 6,090
Debt securities in issue 26 64,320 65,239
Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities 3,097 4,289
Subordinated liabilities 29 23,548 24,439
Total liabilities 138,118 143,863
Equity
Called up share capital 32 8,973 9,631
Share premium account 32 14,810 14,738
Other equity instruments 32 19,024 17,703
Merger and other reserves 33,664 35,946
Retained earnings 59,668 63,288
Total equity 136,139 141,306
Total liabilities and equity at 31 Dec 274,257 285,169
* For Notes on the financial statements, see page 353.
The accompanying notes on pages 353 to 438, the audited sections in the Risk review on pages 126 to 235 and ‘Directors’ remuneration
report’ on pages 279 to 317 form an integral part of these financial statements.
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 19 February 2025 and signed on its behalf by:
Sir Mark E Tucker Pam Kaur
Group Chairman Group Chief Financial Officer

[PAGE 353]

HSBC Holdings statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 December 2024
Other
reserves
Called up Other Merger Total
share Share equity Retained and other shareholders’
capital premium instruments earnings1,2 reserves equity
$m $m $m $m $m $m
At 1 Jan 2024 9,631 14,738 17,703 63,288 35,946 141,306
Profit for the year — — — 21,048 — 21,048
Other comprehensive income (net of tax) — — — 21 — 21
– changes in fair value of financial liabilities designated at fair value due to
movement in own credit risk — — — 21 — 21
Total comprehensive income for the year — — — 21,069 — 21,069
Shares issued under employee share plans 5 72 — (181) — (104)
Capital securities issued3 — — 3,571 — — 3,571
Purchase and cancellation of shares4 (663) — — (11,043) 663 (11,043)
Dividends to shareholders — — — (16,410) — (16,410)
Redemption of capital securities5 — — (2,250) — — (2,250)
Transfers6 — — — 2,945 (2,945) —
At 31 Dec 2024 8,973 14,810 19,024 59,668 33,664 136,139
At 1 Jan 2023 10,147 14,664 19,746 67,996 40,555 153,108
Profit for the year — — — 9,212 — 9,212
Other comprehensive income (net of tax) — — — (124) — (124)
– changes in fair value of financial liabilities designated at fair value due to
movement in own credit risk — — — (124) — (124)
Total comprehensive income for the year — — — 9,088 — 9,088
Shares issued under employee share plans 5 74 — (328) — (249)
Capital securities issued — — 1,980 — — 1,980
Purchase and cancellation of shares (521) — — (7,025) 521 (7,025)
Dividends to shareholders — — — (11,593) — (11,593)
Redemption of capital securities — — (4,023) 20 — (4,003)
Transfers6 — — — 5,130 (5,130) —
At 31 Dec 2023 9,631 14,738 17,703 63,288 35,946 141,306
At 1 Jan 2022 10,316 14,602 22,414 65,116 37,882 150,330
Profit for the year — — — 12,357 — 12,357
Other comprehensive income (net of tax) — — — 326 — 326
– changes in fair value of financial liabilities designated at fair value due to
movement in own credit risk — — — 326 — 326
Total comprehensive income for the year — — — 12,683 — 12,683
Shares issued under employee share plans 5 62 — (161) — (94)
Capital securities issued — — — — — —
Purchase and cancellation of shares (174) — — (1,001) 174 (1,001)
Dividends to shareholders — — — (6,544) — (6,544)
Redemption of capital securities — — (2,668) 402 — (2,266)
Transfers6 — — — (2,499) 2,499 —
At 31 Dec 2022 10,147 14,664 19,746 67,996 40,555 153,108
Dividends per ordinary share at 31 December 2024 were $0.82 (2023: $0.53; 2022: $0.27).
1 Retained earnings include unrealised profits from intercompany transactions and share-based payment reserves, which are excluded from distributable
reserves. Distributable reserves include the distributable portions of retained earnings and the merger reserve. Distributable reserves are reduced by ordinary
dividend payments, distributions on additional tier 1 instruments, share buy-backs and impairments in investments in subsidiaries. They are increased by profits
and the realisation of retained earnings or merger reserves upon impairment of an associated investment in subsidiary.
2 At 31 December 2024, retained earnings included 29,739,384 own shares held. These include own shares held by HSBC Holdings for the benefit of
beneficiaries within employee trusts for the settlement of shares expected to be delivered under employee share schemes or bonus plans.
3 HSBC Holdings issued SGD1,500m 5.250% contingent convertible securities in June 2024, and a further $1,350m 6.875% and $1,150m 6.950% contingent
convertible securities in September 2024. All instruments were recorded net of issuance cost.
4 HSBC Holdings announced the following share buy-backs during the year: a share buy-back of up to $2.0bn in February 2024, which was completed in April
2024; a share buy-back of up to $3.0bn in April 2024, which was completed in July 2024; a share buy-back of up to $3.0bn in July 2024, which was completed in
October 2024; and a share buy-back of up to $3.0bn in October 2024, which was completed in February 2025.
5 In September 2024, HSBC Holdings redeemed its $2,250m 6.375% contingent convertible securities.
6 At 31 December 2024, an impairment of $11,442m (2023: $5,512m) of HSBC Overseas Holdings (UK) Limited was recognised, resulting in a permitted transfer
of $2,945m (2023: $5,130m) from the remaining historical associated merger reserve to retained earnings, and a realisation of nil share-based payment reserves
(2023: $382m) to retained earnings. In 2022, a part-reversal of the impairment resulted in a transfer from retained earnings back to the merger reserve of
$2,499m.
Financial
statements

[PAGE 354]

Financial statements
HSBC Holdings statement of cash flows
for the year ended 31 December 2024
2024 2023 2022
$m $m $m
Profit before tax 20,549 8,235 9,280
Adjustments for non-cash items 11,721 5,611 (2,500)
– depreciation, amortisation and impairment/expected credit losses 11,552 5,629 (2,428)
– share-based payment expense 1 — 1
– other non-cash items included in profit before tax 53 (38) (73)
– elimination of exchange differences1 115 20 —
Changes in operating assets and liabilities
Change in loans and advances to HSBC undertakings (2,753) (1,267) (1,657)
Change in financial assets with HSBC undertakings designated and otherwise mandatorily measured at fair value (1,978) (7,767) (914)
Change in net trading securities and net derivatives (1,537) (529) 4,712
Change in other assets 603 363 51
Change in financial investments — — 196
Change in debt securities in issue 469 1,964 (5,625)
Change in financial liabilities designated at fair value 292 3,096 (4,755)
Change in other liabilities (1,897) 1,947 (3,394)
Tax received 1,691 577 215
Net cash from operating activities 27,160 12,230 (4,391)
Purchase of financial investments (29,812) (7,803) (21,481)
Proceeds from the sale and maturity of financial investments 31,779 20,074 17,165
Net cash outflow from acquisition of or increase in stake of subsidiaries (7,473) (2,517) (5,696)
Repayment of capital from subsidiaries 2,963 4,993 3,860
Net investment in intangible assets (43) (46) (39)
Net cash from investing activities (2,586) 14,701 (6,191)
Issue of ordinary share capital and other equity instruments 3,648 2,059 67
Redemption of preference shares and other equity instruments (2,250) (4,003) (2,266)
Purchase of own shares (532) (855) (438)
Cancellation of shares (11,204) (5,812) (2,298)
Subordinated loan capital issued 4,268 5,270 7,300
Subordinated loan capital repaid (3,994) — —
Debt securities issued 16,102 17,180 18,076
Debt securities repaid (18,179) (13,047) (10,094)
Dividends paid on ordinary shares (15,348) (10,492) (5,330)
Dividends paid to holders of other equity instruments (1,062) (1,101) (1,214)
Net cash from financing activities (28,551) (10,801) 3,803
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (3,977) 16,130 (6,779)
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 22,814 6,756 13,535
Exchange differences in respect of cash and cash equivalents2 (144) (72) —
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 Dec 18,693 22,814 6,756
Cash and cash equivalents comprise:
– cash at bank with HSBC undertakings 2,548 7,029 3,210
– cash collateral and net settlement accounts 2,544 3,422 3,544
– loans and advances to HSBC undertakings of one month or less 8,500 — —
– treasury and other eligible bills 5,101 12,363 2
Interest received was $6,624m (2023: $5,695m; 2022: $2,410m), interest paid was $8,800m (2023: $7,754m; 2022: $3,813m) and dividends
received were $33,846m (2023: $16,824m; 2022: $9,478m).
1 Adjustment to bring changes between opening and closing balance sheet amounts to average rates. This is not done on a line-by-line basis, as details cannot be
determined without unreasonable expense. As this change has immaterial impact, 2022 prior period comparatives have not been restated.
2 In 2023, additional disclosure has been made in respect of exchange differences on cash and cash equivalents. As this change has immaterial impact, 2022 prior
period comparatives have not been restated.

[PAGE 355]

Notes on the financial statements
Contents
353 1 Basis of preparation and material accounting policies 405 19 Investments in subsidiaries
366 2 Net fee income 407 20 Structured entities
367 3 Net income/(expense) from financial instruments measured at 409 21 Goodwill and intangible assets
fair value through profit or loss 411 22 Prepayments, accrued income and other assets
367 4 Insurance business 411 23 Assets held for sale, liabilities of disposal groups held for sale
and business acquisitions
374 5 Employee compensation and benefits
413 24 Trading liabilities
379 6 Auditor’s remuneration
414 25 Financial liabilities designated at fair value
380 7 Tax 414 26 Debt securities in issue
382 8 Dividends 414 27 Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities
383 9 Earnings per share 415 28 Provisions
383 10 Segmental analysis 416 29 Subordinated liabilities
386 11 Trading assets 417 30 Maturity analysis of assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet
commitments
386 12 Fair values of financial instruments carried at fair value
422 31 Offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities
393 13 Fair values of financial instruments not carried at fair value
423 32 Called up share capital and other equity instruments
395 14 Financial assets designated and otherwise mandatorily 425 33 Contingent liabilities, contractual commitments and guarantees
measured at fair value through profit or loss
426 34 Finance lease receivables
395 15 Derivatives
426 35 Legal proceedings and regulatory matters
399 16 Financial investments 429 36 Related party transactions
400 17 Assets pledged, collateral received and assets
430 37 Events after the balance sheet date
transferred
430 38 HSBC Holdings’ subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates
401 18 Interests in associates and joint ventures
1 Basis of preparation and material accounting policies
1.1Basis of preparation
(a) Compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards
The consolidated financial statements of HSBC and the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings comply with UK-adopted international
accounting standards and with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and have also applied international financial reporting standards
adopted pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 as it applies in the European Union. These financial statements are also prepared in
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (‘IFRS Accounting
Standards’), including interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee, as there are no applicable differences from IFRS
Accounting Standards for the periods presented. There were no unendorsed standards effective for the year ended 31 December 2024
affecting these consolidated and separate financial statements.
IFRS Accounting Standards adopted during the year ended 31 December 2024
There were no new standards, amendments to standards or interpretations that had an effect on these financial statements. Accounting
policies have been applied consistently.
(b) Differences between IFRS Accounting Standards and Hong Kong Financial Reporting
Standards
There are no significant differences between IFRS Accounting Standards and Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards in terms of their
application to HSBC, and consequently there would be no significant differences had the financial statements been prepared in accordance
with Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards. The ‘Notes on the financial statements’, taken together with the ‘Report of the Directors’,
include the aggregate of all disclosures necessary to satisfy IFRS Accounting Standards and Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards.
(c) Future accounting developments
Minor amendments to IFRS Accounting Standards
The International Accounting Standards Board (‘IASB’) has published a number of minor amendments to IFRS Accounting Standards that are
effective from 1 January 2025. HSBC expects they will have an insignificant effect, when adopted, on the consolidated financial statements of
HSBC and the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings.
Other amendments and new IFRS Accounting Standards
Amendments to IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ and IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’
In May 2024, the IASB issued amendments to IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ and IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’, effective for
settled when using an electronic payment system, the amendments also provide further clarification regarding the classification of financial
assets that contain contractual terms that change the timing or amount of contractual cash flows, including those arising from ESG-related
contingencies, and financial assets with certain non-recourse features. The Group is undertaking an assessment of the potential impact.
Financial
statements

[PAGE 356]

Notes on the financial statements
IFRS 18 ‘Presentation and Disclosure in Financial Statements’
on or after 1 January 2027. The new accounting standard aims to give users of financial statements more transparent and comparable
information about an entity’s financial performance. It will replace IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’ but carries over many
requirements from that IFRS Accounting Standard unchanged. In addition, there are three sets of new requirements relating to the structure of
the income statement, management-defined performance measures and the aggregation and disaggregation of financial information.
While IFRS 18 will not change recognition criteria or measurement bases, it may have an impact on presenting information in the financial
statements, in particular the income statement and to a lesser extent the cash flow statement. HSBC are currently assessing impacts and data
readiness before developing a more detailed implementation plan.
(d) Foreign currencies
HSBC’s consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars because the US dollar and currencies linked to it form the major currency
bloc in which HSBC transacts and funds its business. The US dollar is also HSBC Holdings’ functional currency because the US dollar and
currencies linked to it are the most significant currencies relevant to the underlying transactions, events and conditions of its subsidiaries, as
well as representing a significant proportion of its funds generated from financing activities.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction. Assets and liabilities denominated in
foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange at the balance sheet date, except non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at
historical cost, which are translated using the rate of exchange at the initial transaction date. Exchange differences are included in other
comprehensive income or in the income statement depending on where the gain or loss on the underlying item is recognised. Except for
subsidiaries operating in hyperinflationary economies, in the consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of branches,
subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates whose functional currency is not US dollars are translated into the Group’s presentation currency at
the rate of exchange at the balance sheet date, while their results are translated into US dollars at the average rates of exchange for the
reporting period. Exchange differences arising are recognised in other comprehensive income. On disposal of a foreign operation, exchange
differences previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the income statement.
(e) Presentation of information
Accounts 2024 as follows:
– Disclosures concerning the nature and extent of risks relating to insurance contracts and financial instruments are included in the ‘Risk
review’ on pages 126 to 235.
– The ‘Own funds disclosure’ is included in the ‘Risk review’ on page 205.
HSBC follows the UK Finance Disclosure Code. The UK Finance Disclosure Code aims to increase the quality and comparability of UK banks’
disclosures and sets out five disclosure principles together with supporting guidance agreed in 2010. In line with the principles of the UK
Finance Disclosure Code, HSBC assesses good practice recommendations issued from time to time by relevant regulators and standard
setters, and will assess the applicability and relevance of such guidance, enhancing disclosures where appropriate.
(f) Critical estimates and judgements
The preparation of financial information requires the use of estimates and judgements about future conditions. In view of the inherent
uncertainties and the high level of subjectivity involved in the recognition or measurement of items, highlighted as the ‘critical estimates and
judgements’ in section 1.2 below, it is possible that the outcomes in the next financial year could differ from those on which management’s
estimates are based. This could result in materially different estimates and judgements from those reached by management for the purposes
of these financial statements. Management’s selection of HSBC’s accounting policies that contain critical estimates and judgements reflects
the materiality of the items to which the policies are applied and the high degree of judgement and estimation uncertainty involved.
Management has considered the impact of climate-related risks on HSBC’s financial position and performance. While the effects of climate
change are a source of uncertainty, as at 31 December 2024 management did not consider there to be a material impact on our critical
judgements and estimates from the physical, transition and other climate-related risks in the short to medium term. In particular, management
has considered the known and observable potential impacts of climate-related risks of associated judgements and estimates in our value in use
calculations.
(g) Going concern
The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis, as the Directors are satisfied that the Group and parent company have the
resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future. In making this assessment, the Directors have considered a wide range of
information relating to present and future conditions, including future projections of profitability, liquidity, capital requirements and capital
resources.
These considerations include stressed scenarios that reflect the uncertainty in the macroeconomic environment following uncertain inflation,
rapidly changing interest rates, slower Chinese economic activity, and disrupted supply chains as a result of the Russia-Ukraine war, conflict in
the Middle East and US-China tensions. They also included other top and emerging risks, including climate change, as well as the related
impacts on profitability, capital and liquidity.
1.2Summary of material accounting policies
(a) Consolidation and related policies
Investments in subsidiaries
Where an entity is governed by voting rights, HSBC consolidates when it holds – directly or indirectly – the necessary voting rights to pass
resolutions by the governing body. In all other cases, the assessment of control is more complex and requires judgement of other factors,
including having exposure to variability of returns, power to direct relevant activities, and whether power is held as agent or principal.

[PAGE 357]

Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. The amount of non-controlling interest is measured either at fair value
or at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets. This election is made for each business
combination. HSBC Holdings’ investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less impairment losses.
Impairment testing is performed where there is an indication of impairment, by comparing the recoverable amount of the relevant investment
to its carrying amount. Indicators of impairment include both external and internal sources of information. Similarly, assessments are made as
to whether an impairment loss recognised in prior periods may no longer exist or may have decreased. Where this is the case, such an
impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimate used to determine the relevant recoverable amount since the last
impairment loss was recognised, and to the extent that it does not increase the carrying amount above that had no impairment loss been
previously recognised.
Critical estimates and judgements
Investments in subsidiaries are tested for impairment when there is an indication that the investment may be impaired, which involves estimations of value in use
reflecting management’s best estimate of the future cash flows of the investment and the rates used to discount these cash flows, both of which are subject to
uncertain factors as follows:
Judgements Estimates
– The accuracy of forecast cash flows is subject to a high – The future cash flows of each investment are sensitive to the cash flows projected for the periods
degree of uncertainty in volatile market conditions. for which detailed forecasts are available and to assumptions regarding the long-term pattern of
Where such circumstances are determined to exist, sustainable cash flows thereafter. Forecasts are compared with actual performance and verifiable
management re-tests for impairment or reversal more economic data, but they reflect management’s view of future business prospects at the time of the
frequently than once a year when indicators exist. This assessment.
ensures that the assumptions on which the cash flow – The rates used to discount future expected cash flows can have a significant effect on their
forecasts are based continue to reflect current market valuation, and are based on the costs of equity assigned to the investment. The cost of equity
conditions and management’s best estimate of future percentage is generally derived from a capital asset pricing model and the market implied cost of
business prospects. equity, which incorporates inputs reflecting a number of financial and economic variables, including
the risk-free interest rate in the country concerned and a premium for the risk of the business being
evaluated. These variables are subject to fluctuations in external market rates and economic
conditions beyond management’s control.
– Key assumptions used in estimating impairment in subsidiaries and their reversal where relevant are
described in Note 19.
Goodwill
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units (’CGUs’) for the purpose of impairment testing, which is undertaken at the lowest level at which
goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes. HSBC’s CGUs are based on its main legal entities subdivided by global business,
except for Global Banking and Markets, for which goodwill is monitored on a global basis.
Impairment testing is performed at least once a year, or whenever there is an indication of impairment, by comparing the recoverable amount
of a CGU with its carrying amount.
Goodwill is included in a disposal group if the disposal group is a CGU to which goodwill has been allocated or it is an operation within such a
CGU. The amount of goodwill included in a disposal group is measured on the basis of the relative values of the operation disposed of and the
portion of the CGU retained.
Critical estimates and judgements
The review of goodwill and non-financial assets (see Note 1.2(n)) for impairment reflects management’s best estimate of the future cash flows of the CGUs and the
rates used to discount these cash flows, both of which are subject to uncertain factors as follows:
Judgements Estimates
– The accuracy of forecast cash flows is subject to a – The future cash flows of the CGUs are sensitive to the cash flows projected for the periods for which
high degree of uncertainty in volatile market detailed forecasts are available and to assumptions regarding the long-term pattern of sustainable cash
conditions. Where such circumstances are flows thereafter. Forecasts are compared with actual performance and verifiable economic data, but
determined to exist, management re-tests goodwill they reflect management’s view of future business prospects at the time of the assessment.
for impairment more frequently than once a year – The rates used to discount future expected cash flows can have a significant effect on their valuation,
when indicators of impairment exist. This ensures and are based on the costs of equity assigned to individual CGUs. The cost of equity percentage is
that the assumptions on which the cash flow generally derived from a capital asset pricing model and market implied cost of equity, which
forecasts are based continue to reflect current incorporates inputs reflecting a number of financial and economic variables, including the risk-free
market conditions and management’s best estimate interest rate in the country concerned and a premium for the risk of the business being evaluated.
of future business prospects. These variables are subject to fluctuations in external market rates and economic conditions beyond
management’s control.
– Key assumptions used in estimating goodwill and non-financial asset impairment are described in Note
21.
The Group does not consider there to be a significant risk of a material adjustment to the carrying amount of goodwill in the next financial year,
but does consider this to be an area that is inherently judgemental. The Group’s consideration of this risk includes taking account of the
potential implications for CGUs arising from the revised organisational structure effective from 1 January 2025.
HSBC sponsored structured entities
HSBC is considered to sponsor another entity if, in addition to ongoing involvement with the entity, it had a key role in establishing that entity or
in bringing together relevant counterparties so the transaction that is the purpose of the entity could occur. HSBC is generally not considered a
sponsor if the only involvement with the entity is merely administrative.
Interests in associates and joint arrangements
Joint arrangements are investments in which HSBC, together with one or more parties, has joint control. Depending on HSBC’s rights and
obligations, the joint arrangement is classified as either a joint operation or a joint venture.
HSBC classifies investments in entities over which it has significant influence, and those that are neither subsidiaries nor joint arrangements, as
associates.
Financial
statements

[PAGE 358]

Notes on the financial statements
HSBC recognises its share of the assets, liabilities and results in a joint operation. Investments in associates and interests in joint ventures are
recognised using the equity method. The attributable share of the results and reserves of joint ventures and associates is included in the
consolidated financial statements of HSBC based on either financial statements made up to 31 December or pro-rated amounts adjusted for
any material transactions or events occurring between the date the financial statements are available and 31 December.
Investments in associates and joint ventures are assessed at each reporting date and tested for impairment when there is an indication that the
investment may be impaired, by comparing the recoverable amount of the relevant investment to its carrying amount. Goodwill on acquisition
of interests in joint ventures and associates is not tested separately for impairment, but is assessed as part of the carrying amount of the
investment. Previously recognised impairments are assessed for reversal when there are indicators that they may no longer exist or have
decreased. Any reversal, which may arise only from changes in estimates used to determine the prior impairment loss, is recognised to the
extent that it does not increase the carrying amount above that had no impairment loss been previously recognised.
Critical estimates and judgements
The most significant critical estimates relate to the assessment of impairment or its reversal of our investment in Bank of Communications Co., Limited (‘BoCom’),
which involves estimations of value in use:
Judgements Estimates
– The value in use calculation uses discounted cash flow projections based on
management’s best estimate of future earnings available to ordinary shareholders
prepared in accordance with IAS 36 ‘Impairment of Assets’. Those cash flows use
estimates based on BoCom’s current condition and so do not include estimated cash
flows arising from uncommitted future actions that may affect the performance of the
investment which will be considered at the relevant time should they arise.
– Key assumptions used in estimating BoCom’s value in use and the sensitivity of the
value in use calculations to different assumptions are described in Note 18.
(b) Income and expense
Operating income
Interest income and expense
Interest income and expense for all financial instruments, excluding those classified as held for trading or designated at fair value, is recognised
in ‘Interest income’ and ‘Interest expense’ in the income statement using the effective interest method. However, as an exception to this,
interest on debt instruments issued by HSBC for funding purposes that are designated under the fair value option to reduce an accounting
mismatch and on derivatives managed in conjunction with those debt instruments is included in interest expense.
Interest on credit-impaired financial assets is recognised by applying the effective interest rate to the amortised cost (i.e. gross carrying amount
of the asset less allowance for expected credit losses).
Non-interest income and expense
HSBC generates fee income from services provided over time, such as account service and card fees, or when HSBC delivers a specific
transaction at a point in time, such as broking services and import/export services. With the exception of certain fund management and
performance fees, all other fees are generated at a fixed price. Fund management and performance fees can be variable depending on the size
of the customer portfolio and HSBC’s performance as fund manager. Variable fees are recognised when all uncertainties are resolved. Fee
income is generally earned from short-term contracts with payment terms that do not include a significant financing component.
HSBC acts as principal in the majority of contracts with customers, with the exception of broking services. For most brokerage trades, HSBC
acts as agent in the transaction and recognises broking income net of fees payable to other parties in the arrangement.
HSBC recognises fees earned on transaction-based arrangements at a point in time when it has fully provided the service to the customer.
Where the contract requires services to be provided over time, income is recognised on a systematic basis over the life of the agreement.
Where HSBC offers a package of services that contains multiple non-distinct performance obligations, such as those included in account
service packages, the promised services are treated as a single performance obligation. If a package of services contains distinct performance
obligations, the corresponding transaction price is allocated to each performance obligation based on the estimated stand-alone selling prices.
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Net income/(expense) from financial instruments measured at fair value through profit or loss includes the following:
– ‘Net income from financial instruments held for trading or managed on a fair value basis’: This comprises net trading activities, which
includes all gains and losses from changes in the fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities held for trading and other financial
instruments managed on a fair value basis, together with the related interest income, interest expense and dividend income, excluding the
effect of changes in the credit risk of liabilities managed on a fair value basis. It also includes all gains and losses from changes in the fair
value of derivatives that are managed in conjunction with financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss.
– ‘Net income/(expense) from assets and liabilities of insurance businesses, including related derivatives, measured at fair value through profit
or loss’: This includes all gains and losses from changes in the fair value, together with related interest income, interest expense and
dividend income in respect of financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss, and those derivatives managed in
conjunction with the above that can be separately identifiable from other trading derivatives.
– ‘Changes in fair value of designated debt instruments and related derivatives’: Interest paid on debt instruments and interest cash flows on
related derivatives is presented in interest expense where doing so reduces an accounting mismatch.
– ‘Changes in fair value of other financial instruments mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss’: This includes interest on
instruments that fail the solely payments of principal and interest (‘SPPI’) test, see (d) below.
The accounting policies for insurance service result and insurance finance income/(expense) are disclosed in Note 1.2(j).

[PAGE 359]

(c) Valuation of financial instruments
All financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value. Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability
in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The fair value of a financial instrument on initial recognition is
generally its transaction price (that is, the fair value of the consideration given or received). However, if there is a difference between the transaction
price and the fair value of financial instruments whose fair value is based on a quoted price in an active market or a valuation technique that uses
only data from observable markets, HSBC recognises the difference as a trading gain or loss at inception (a ‘day 1 gain or loss’). In all other cases,
the entire day 1 gain or loss is deferred and recognised in the income statement over the life of the transaction until the transaction matures, is
closed out, the valuation inputs become observable or HSBC enters into an offsetting transaction.
The fair value of financial instruments is generally measured on an individual basis. However, in cases where HSBC manages a group of financial
assets and liabilities according to its net market or credit risk exposure, the fair value of the group of financial instruments is measured on a net basis
but the underlying financial assets and liabilities are presented separately in the financial statements, unless they satisfy the IFRS offsetting criteria.
Financial instruments are classified into one of three fair value hierarchy levels, described in Note 12, ‘Fair values of financial instruments
carried at fair value‘.
Critical estimates and judgements
The majority of valuation techniques employ only observable market data. However, certain financial instruments are classified on the basis of valuation techniques
that feature one or more significant market inputs that are unobservable, and for them, the measurement of fair value is more judgemental:
Judgements Estimates
– An instrument in its entirety is classified as valued using significant unobservable – Details on the Group’s Level 3 financial instruments and the
inputs if, in the opinion of management, greater than 5% of the instrument’s valuation sensitivity of their valuation to the effect of applying reasonably
is driven by unobservable inputs. possible alternative assumptions in determining their fair value are
– ‘Unobservable’ in this context means that there is little or no current market data set out in Note 12.
available from which to determine the price at which an arm’s length transaction would
be likely to occur. It generally does not mean that there is no data available at all upon
which to base a determination of fair value (consensus pricing data may, for example,
be used).
(d) Financial instruments measured at amortised cost
Financial assets that are held to collect the contractual cash flows and which contain contractual terms that give rise on specified dates to cash
flows that are solely payments of principal and interest are measured at amortised cost. Such financial assets include most loans and advances
to banks and customers and some debt securities. In addition, most financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost. HSBC accounts for
regular way amortised cost financial instruments using trade date accounting. The carrying amount of these financial assets at initial recognition
includes any directly attributable transactions costs.
HSBC may commit to underwriting loans on fixed contractual terms for specified periods of time. When the loan arising from the lending
commitment is expected to be sold shortly after origination, the commitment to lend is recorded as a derivative. When HSBC intends to hold
the loan, the loan commitment is included in the impairment calculations set out below.
Financial assets are reclassified only when the business model for their management changes. Such changes, which are expected to be
infrequent, are determined by senior management as a result of external or internal changes and must be significant to operations and
demonstrable to external parties. Reclassifications are applied prospectively from the first day of the first reporting period following the change
of business model. Where a financial asset is reclassified out of the amortised cost measurement category and into the fair value through other
comprehensive income measurement category its fair value is measured at the date of reclassification. Any gain or loss arising from a
difference between the previous amortised cost and fair value is recognised in other comprehensive income. The effective interest rate and the
measurement of expected credit losses are not adjusted as a result of the reclassification.
Non-trading reverse repurchase, repurchase and similar agreements
When debt securities are sold subject to a commitment to repurchase them at a predetermined price (‘repos’), they remain on the balance
sheet and a liability is recorded in respect of the consideration received. Securities purchased under commitments to resell (‘reverse repos’) are
not recognised on the balance sheet and an asset is recorded in respect of the initial consideration paid. Non-trading repos and reverse repos
are measured at amortised cost. The difference between the sale and repurchase price or between the purchase and resale price is treated as
interest and recognised in net interest income over the life of the agreement.
Contracts that are economically equivalent to reverse repo or repo agreements (such as sales or purchases of debt securities entered into
together with total return swaps with the same counterparty) are accounted for similarly to, and presented together with, reverse repo or repo
agreements.
(e) Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income
Financial assets managed within a business model that is achieved by both collecting contractual cash flows and selling and which contain
contractual terms that give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest are measured at fair value
through other comprehensive income (‘FVOCI’). These comprise primarily debt securities. They are recognised on trade date when HSBC
enters into contractual arrangements to purchase and are generally derecognised when they are either sold or redeemed. They are
subsequently remeasured at fair value with changes therein (except for those relating to impairment, interest income and foreign currency
exchange gains and losses) recognised in other comprehensive income until the assets are sold. Upon disposal, the cumulative gains or losses
in other comprehensive income are recognised in the income statement as ‘Gains less losses from financial instruments’. Financial assets
measured at FVOCI are included in the impairment calculations set out below and impairment is recognised in profit or loss.
Financial
statements

[PAGE 360]

Notes on the financial statements
(f) Equity securities measured at fair value with fair value movements presented in other
comprehensive income
The equity securities for which fair value movements are shown in other comprehensive income are business facilitation and other similar
investments where HSBC holds the investments other than to generate a capital return. Dividends from such investments are recognised in
profit or loss. Gains or losses on the derecognition of these equity securities are not transferred to profit or loss. Otherwise, equity securities
are measured at fair value through profit or loss.
(g) Financial instruments designated at fair value through profit or loss
Financial instruments, other than those held for trading, are classified in this category if they meet one or more of the criteria set out below and
are so designated irrevocably at inception:
– The use of the designation removes or significantly reduces an accounting mismatch.
– A group of financial assets and liabilities or a group of financial liabilities is managed and its performance is evaluated on a fair value basis, in
accordance with a documented risk management or investment strategy.
– The financial liability contains one or more non-closely related embedded derivatives.
Designated financial assets are recognised when HSBC enters into contracts with counterparties, which is generally on trade date, and are
normally derecognised when the rights to the cash flows expire or are transferred. Designated financial liabilities are recognised when HSBC
enters into contracts with counterparties, which is generally on settlement date, and are normally derecognised when extinguished.
Subsequent changes in fair values are recognised in the income statement in ‘Net income from financial instruments held for trading or
managed on a fair value basis’ or ‘Net income/(expense) from assets and liabilities of insurance businesses, including related derivatives,
measured at fair value through profit or loss’ or ‘Changes in fair value of designated debt and related derivatives’ except for the effect of
changes in the liabilities’ credit risk, which is presented in ‘Other comprehensive income’, unless that treatment would create or enlarge an
accounting mismatch in profit or loss.
Under the above criteria, the main classes of financial instruments designated by HSBC are:
– Debt instruments for funding purposes that are designated to reduce an accounting mismatch: The interest and/or foreign exchange
exposure on certain fixed-rate debt securities issued has been matched with the interest and/or foreign exchange exposure on certain
swaps as part of a documented risk management strategy.
– Financial assets and financial liabilities under unit-linked and non-linked investment contracts: A contract under which HSBC does not accept
significant insurance risk from another party is not classified as an insurance contract, other than investment contracts with discretionary
participation features (‘DPF’), but is accounted for as a financial liability. Customer liabilities under linked and certain non-linked investment
contracts issued by insurance subsidiaries are determined based on the fair value of the assets held in the linked funds or by a valuation
method. The related financial assets and liabilities are managed and reported to management on a fair value basis. Designation at fair value
of the financial assets and related liabilities allows changes in fair values to be recorded in the income statement and presented in the same
line.
– Financial liabilities that contain both deposit and derivative components: These financial liabilities are managed and their performance
evaluated on a fair value basis.
(h) Derivatives
Derivatives are financial instruments that derive their value from the price of underlying items such as equities, interest rates or other indices.
Derivatives are recognised initially and are subsequently measured at fair value through profit or loss. Derivatives are classified as assets when
their fair value is positive or as liabilities when their fair value is negative. This includes embedded derivatives in financial liabilities, which are
bifurcated from the host contract when they meet the definition of a derivative on a stand-alone basis.
Where the derivatives are managed with debt securities issued by HSBC that are designated at fair value where doing so reduces an
accounting mismatch, the contractual interest is shown in ‘Interest expense’ together with the interest payable on the issued debt.
Hedge accounting
When derivatives are not part of fair value designated relationships, if held for risk management purposes they are designated in hedge
accounting relationships where the required criteria for documentation and hedge effectiveness are met. HSBC uses these derivatives or,
where allowed, other non-derivative hedging instruments in fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or hedges of net investments in foreign
operations as appropriate to the risk being hedged.
Fair value hedge
Fair value hedge accounting does not change the recording of gains and losses on derivatives and other hedging instruments, but results in
recognising changes in the fair value of the hedged assets or liabilities attributable to the hedged risk that would not otherwise be recognised in
the income statement. If a hedge relationship no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, hedge accounting is discontinued and the
cumulative adjustment to the carrying amount of a hedged item for which the effective interest rate method is used is amortised to the income
statement on a recalculated effective interest rate, unless the hedged item has been derecognised, in which case it is recognised in the income
statement immediately.
Cash flow hedge
The effective portion of gains and losses on hedging instruments is recognised in other comprehensive income and the ineffective portion of
the change in fair value of derivative hedging instruments that are part of a cash flow hedge relationship is recognised immediately in the
income statement within ‘Net income from financial instruments held for trading or managed on a fair value basis’. The accumulated gains and
losses recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the income statement in the same periods in which the hedged item
affects profit or loss. When a hedge relationship is discontinued, or partially discontinued, any cumulative gain or loss recognised in other
comprehensive income remains in equity until the forecast transaction is recognised in the income statement. When a forecast transaction is
no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income is immediately reclassified to
the income statement.

[PAGE 361]

Net investment hedge
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for in a similar way to cash flow hedges. The effective portion of gains and
losses on the hedging instrument is recognised in other comprehensive income and other gains and losses are recognised immediately in the
income statement. Gains and losses previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the income statement on the
disposal, or part-disposal, of the foreign operation.
Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting
Non-qualifying hedges are derivatives entered into as economic hedges of assets and liabilities for which hedge accounting was not applied.
(i) Impairment of amortised cost and FVOCI financial assets
Expected credit losses (‘ECL’) are recognised for loans and advances to banks and customers, non-trading reverse repurchase agreements,
other financial assets held at amortised cost, debt instruments measured at FVOCI, and certain loan commitments and financial guarantee
contracts. At initial recognition, an allowance (or provision in the case of some loan commitments and financial guarantees) is recognised for
ECL resulting from possible default events within the next 12 months, or less, where the remaining life is less than 12 months (’12-month
ECL’). In the event of a significant increase in credit risk, an allowance (or provision) is recognised for ECL resulting from all possible default
events over the expected life of the financial instrument (‘lifetime ECL’). Financial assets where 12-month ECL is recognised are considered to
be ‘stage 1’; financial assets which are considered to have experienced a significant increase in credit risk are in ‘stage 2’; and financial assets
for which there is objective evidence of impairment, and so are considered to be in default or otherwise credit impaired are in ‘stage 3’.
Purchased or originated credit-impaired financial assets (‘POCI’) are treated differently as set out below.
Credit impaired (stage 3)
HSBC determines that a financial instrument is credit impaired and in stage 3 by considering relevant objective evidence, primarily whether
contractual payments of either principal or interest are past due for more than 90 days, there are other indications that the borrower is unlikely
to pay such as that a concession has been granted to the borrower for economic or legal reasons relating to the borrower’s financial condition,
or the loan is otherwise considered to be in default.
If such unlikeliness to pay is not identified at an earlier stage, it is deemed to occur when an exposure is 90 days past due. Therefore, the
definitions of credit impaired and default are aligned as far as possible so that stage 3 represents all loans that are considered defaulted or
otherwise credit impaired.
Interest income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate to the amortised cost (i.e. gross carrying amount less allowance for ECL).
Write-off
Financial assets (and the related impairment allowances) are normally written off, either partially or in full, when there is no realistic prospect of
recovery. Where loans are secured, this is generally after receipt of any proceeds from the realisation of security. In circumstances where the
net realisable value of any collateral has been determined and there is no reasonable expectation of further recovery, write-off may be earlier.
Forbearance
Loans are identified as forborne and classified as either performing or non-performing when HSBC modifies the contractual terms due to
financial difficulty of the borrower. Non-performing forborne loans are stage 3 and classified as non-performing until they meet the curing
criteria, as specified by applicable credit risk policy (for example, when the loan is no longer in default and no other indicators of default have
been present for at least 12 months). Any amount written off as a result of any modification of contractual terms upon entering forbearance
would not be reversed.
The Group applies the EBA Guidelines on the application of definition of default for our retail portfolios, which affect credit risk policies and our
reporting in respect of the status of loans as credit impaired principally due to forbearance (or curing thereof). Further details are provided under
‘Forborne loans and advances’ on page 140.
Performing forborne loans are initially stage 2 and remain classified as forborne until they meet applicable curing criteria (for example, they
continue to not be in default and no other indicators of default are present for a period of at least 24 months). At this point, the loan is either
stage 1 or stage 2 as determined by comparing the risk of a default occurring at the reporting date (based on the modified contractual terms)
and the risk of a default occurring at initial recognition (based on the original, unmodified contractual terms).
A forborne loan is derecognised if the existing agreement is cancelled and a new agreement is made on substantially different terms, or if the
terms of an existing agreement are modified such that the forborne loan is a substantially different financial instrument. Any new loans that
arise following derecognition events in these circumstances would generally be classified as POCI and will continue to be disclosed as
forborne.
Loan modifications other than forborne loans
Loan modifications that are not identified as forborne are considered to be commercial restructurings. Where a commercial restructuring results
in a modification (whether legalised through an amendment to the existing terms or the issuance of a new loan contract) such that HSBC’s
rights to the cash flows under the original contract have expired, the old loan is derecognised and the new loan is recognised at fair value. The
rights to cash flows are generally considered to have expired if the commercial restructuring is at market rates and no payment-related
concession has been provided. Modifications of certain higher credit risk wholesale loans are assessed for derecognition, having regard to
changes in contractual terms that either individually or in combination are judged to result in a substantially different financial instrument.
Mandatory and general offer loan modifications that are not borrower specific, for example market-wide customer relief programmes, generally
do not result in derecognition, but their stage allocation is determined considering all available and supportable information under our ECL
impairment policy. Changes made to these financial instruments that are economically equivalent and required by interest rate benchmark
reform do not result in the derecognition or a change in the carrying amount of the financial instrument, but instead require the effective
interest rate to be updated to reflect the change of the interest rate benchmark.
Financial
statements

[PAGE 362]

Notes on the financial statements
Significant increase in credit risk (stage 2)
An assessment of whether credit risk has increased significantly since initial recognition is performed at each reporting period by considering
the change in the risk of default occurring over the remaining life of the financial instrument.
The assessment explicitly or implicitly compares the risk of default occurring at the reporting date compared with that at initial recognition,
taking into account reasonable and supportable information, including information about past events, current conditions and future economic
conditions. The assessment is unbiased, probability-weighted, and to the extent relevant, uses forward-looking information consistent with that
used in the measurement of ECL. The analysis of credit risk is multifactor. The determination of whether a specific factor is relevant and its
weight compared with other factors depends on the type of product, the characteristics of the financial instrument and the borrower, and the
geographical region. Therefore, it is not possible to provide a single set of criteria that will determine what is considered to be a significant
increase in credit risk, and these criteria will differ for different types of lending, particularly between retail and wholesale. However, unless
identified at an earlier stage, all financial assets are deemed to have suffered a significant increase in credit risk when 30 days past due. In
addition, wholesale loans that are individually assessed, which are typically corporate and commercial customers, and included on a watch or
worry list, are included in stage 2.
For wholesale portfolios, the quantitative comparison assesses default risk using a lifetime probability of default (‘PD’), which encompasses a
wide range of information including the obligor’s customer risk rating (‘CRR’), macroeconomic condition forecasts and credit transition
probabilities. For origination CRRs up to 3.3, significant increase in credit risk is measured by comparing the average PD for the remaining term
estimated at origination with the equivalent estimation at the reporting date. The quantitative measure of significance varies depending on the
credit quality at origination as follows:
Origination CRR Significance trigger – PD to increase by
0.1–1.2 15bps
2.1–3.3 30bps
For CRRs greater than 3.3 that are not impaired, a significant increase in credit risk is considered to have occurred when the origination PD has
doubled. The significance of changes in PD was informed by expert credit risk judgement, referenced to historical credit migrations and to
relative changes in external market rates.
For loans originated prior to the implementation of IFRS 9, the origination PD does not include adjustments to reflect expectations of future
macroeconomic conditions since these are not available without the use of hindsight. In the absence of this data, origination PD must be
approximated assuming through-the-cycle PDs and through-the-cycle migration probabilities, consistent with the instrument’s underlying
modelling approach and the CRR at origination. For these loans, the quantitative comparison is supplemented with additional CRR deterioration-
based thresholds, as set out in the table below:
Additional significance criteria – number of CRR grade notches
deterioration required to identify as significant credit
Origination CRR deterioration (stage 2) (> or equal to)
0.1 5 notches
1.1–4.2 4 notches
4.3–5.1 3 notches
5.2–7.1 2 notches
7.2–8.2 1 notch
8.3 0 notch
Further information about the 23-grade scale used for CRR can be found on page 139.
For retail portfolios, default risk is assessed using a reporting date 12-month PD derived from internal models, which incorporate all available
information about the customer. This PD is adjusted for the effect of macroeconomic forecasts for periods longer than 12 months and is
considered to be a reasonable approximation of a lifetime PD measure. Retail exposures are first segmented into homogenous portfolios,
generally by country, product and brand. Within each portfolio, the stage 2 accounts are defined as accounts with an adjusted 12-month PD
greater than the average 12-month PD of loans in that portfolio 12 months before they become 30 days past due. The expert credit risk
judgement is that no prior increase in credit risk is significant. This portfolio-specific threshold therefore identifies loans with a PD higher than
would be expected from loans that are performing as originally expected and higher than that which would have been acceptable at origination.
It therefore approximates a comparison of origination to reporting date PDs.
We continue to refine the retail transfer criteria approach for certain portfolios as additional data becomes available, in order to utilise a more
relative approach. These enhancements take advantage of the increase in origination-related data in the assessment of significant increases in
credit risk by comparing remaining lifetime PD to the comparable remaining term lifetime PD at origination based on portfolio-specific
origination segments.
Unimpaired and without significant increase in credit risk (stage 1)
ECL resulting from default events that are possible within the next 12 months (‘12-month ECL’) are recognised for financial instruments that
remain in stage 1.
Purchased or originated credit impaired
Financial assets that are purchased or originated at a deep discount that reflects the incurred credit losses are considered to be POCI. This
population includes new financial instruments recognised in most cases following the derecognition of forborne loans. The amount of change in
lifetime ECL for a POCI loan is recognised in profit or loss until the POCI loan is derecognised, even if the lifetime ECL are less than the amount
of ECL included in the estimated cash flows on initial recognition.
Movement between stages
Financial assets can be transferred between the different categories (other than POCI) depending on their relative increase in credit risk since
initial recognition. Financial instruments are transferred out of stage 2 if their credit risk is no longer considered to be significantly increased
since initial recognition based on the assessments described above. In the case of non-performing forborne loans, such financial instruments
are transferred out of stage 3 when they no longer exhibit any evidence of credit impairment and meet the curing criteria as described above.

[PAGE 363]

Measurement of ECL
The assessment of credit risk and the estimation of ECL are unbiased and probability-weighted, and incorporate all available information which
is relevant to the assessment including information about past events, current conditions and reasonable and supportable forecasts of future
events and economic conditions at the reporting date. In addition, the estimation of ECL should take into account the time value of money and
considers other factors such as climate-related risks.
In general, HSBC calculates ECL using three main components: a probability of default (‘PD’), a loss given default (’LGD’) and the exposure at
default (‘EAD’).
The 12-month ECL is calculated by multiplying the 12-month PD, LGD and EAD. Lifetime ECL is calculated using the lifetime PD instead. The
12-month and lifetime PDs represent the probability of default occurring over the next 12 months and the remaining maturity of the instrument
respectively.
The EAD represents the expected balance at default, taking into account the repayment of principal and interest from the balance sheet date to
the default event together with any expected drawdowns of committed facilities. The LGD represents expected losses on the EAD given the
event of default, taking into account, among other attributes, the mitigating effect of collateral value at the time it is expected to be realised and
the time value of money.
HSBC makes use of the IRB framework where possible, with recalibration to meet the differing IFRS 9 requirements as set out in the following
table:
Model Regulatory capital IFRS 9
– Represents long-run average PD throughout a full economic cycle – Represents current portfolio quality and performance, adjusted for
(for mortgage portfolios a hybrid approach, which sits between the the impact of multiple forward-looking macroeconomic scenarios
extremes of point in time and through the cycle, is used for – Default backstop of 90+ days past due for all portfolios (includes
PD calculating long-run averages as required by the PRA) UTP criteria in line with internal policy)
– Default backstop of 90+ days past due for all portfolios (includes
unlikely to pay (‘UTP’) criteria in line with internal policy)
– May be subject to a sovereign cap
EAD – Cannot be lower than current balance – Amortisation captured for term products
– Future drawdown captured for revolving products
– Downturn LGD (consistent with losses we would expect to suffer – LGD based on recent portfolio performance data and includes the
during a severe but plausible economic downturn) expected impact of future economic conditions such as change in
– Regulatory floors may apply to mitigate risk of underestimating the value of collateral
LGD
downturn LGD due to lack of historical data – No floors applied, discounted using the original effective interest rate
– Discounted using appropriate index (minimum 9%) – Only costs associated with selling collateral and certain third-party
– All collection costs included costs are included
Other – Discounted back from point of default to balance sheet date
While 12-month PDs are recalibrated from IRB models where possible, the lifetime PDs are determined by projecting the 12-month PD using a
term structure. For the wholesale methodology, the lifetime PD also takes into account credit migration, i.e. a customer migrating through the
CRR bands over its life.
The ECL for wholesale stage 3 is determined primarily on an individual basis using a discounted cash flow (‘DCF’) methodology. The expected
future cash flows are based on estimates as of the reporting date, reflecting reasonable and supportable assumptions and projections of future
recoveries and expected future receipts of interest.
Collateral is taken into account if it is likely that the recovery of the outstanding amount will include realisation of collateral based on its
estimated fair value of collateral at the time of expected realisation, less costs for obtaining and selling the collateral.
The cash flows are discounted at a reasonable approximation of the original effective interest rate. For significant cases, cash flows under up to
four different scenarios are probability-weighted by reference to the status of the borrower, economic scenarios applied more generally by the
Group and judgement in relation to the likelihood of the work-out strategy succeeding or receivership being required. For less significant cases
where an individual assessment is undertaken, the effect of different economic scenarios and work-out strategies results in an ECL calculation
based on a most likely outcome which is adjusted to capture losses resulting from less likely but possible outcomes. For certain less significant
cases, the bank may use an LGD-based modelled approach to ECL assessment, which factors in a range of economic scenarios.
Period over which ECL is measured
Expected credit loss is measured from the initial recognition of the financial asset. The maximum period considered when measuring ECL (be it
12-month or lifetime ECL) is the maximum contractual period over which HSBC is exposed to credit risk. However, where the financial
instrument includes both a drawn and undrawn commitment and the contractual ability to demand repayment and cancel the undrawn
commitment does not serve to limit HSBC’s exposure to credit risk to the contractual notice period, the contractual period does not determine
the maximum period considered. Instead, ECL is measured over the period HSBC remains exposed to credit risk that is not mitigated by credit
risk management actions. This applies to retail overdrafts and credit cards, where the period is the average time taken for stage 2 exposures to
default or close as performing accounts, determined on a portfolio basis and ranging from between two and six years. In addition, for these
facilities it is not possible to identify the ECL on the loan commitment component separately from the financial asset component. As a result,
the total ECL is recognised in the loss allowance for the financial asset unless the total ECL exceeds the gross carrying amount of the financial
asset, in which case the ECL is recognised as a provision. For wholesale overdraft facilities, credit risk management actions are taken no less
frequently than on an annual basis.
Forward-looking economic inputs
HSBC applies multiple forward-looking global economic scenarios determined with reference to external forecast distributions representative of
its view of forecast economic conditions. This approach is considered sufficient to calculate unbiased expected credit losses in most economic
environments. In certain economic environments, additional analysis may be necessary and may result in additional scenarios or adjustments,
to reflect a range of possible economic outcomes sufficient for an unbiased estimate. The detailed methodology is disclosed in ‘Measurement
uncertainty and sensitivity analysis of ECL estimates’ on page 147.
Financial
statements

[PAGE 364]

Notes on the financial statements
Critical estimates and judgements
The calculation of the Group’s ECL under IFRS 9 requires the Group to make a number of judgements, assumptions and estimates. The most significant are set
out below:
Judgements Estimates
– Defining what is considered to be a significant increase in credit risk – The section ‘Measurement uncertainty and
– Determining the lifetime and point of initial recognition of overdrafts and credit cards sensitivity analysis of ECL estimates’, marked as
audited from page 147, sets out the assumptions
– Selecting and calibrating the PD, LGD and EAD models, which support the calculations, including
used in determining ECL, and provides an indication
making reasonable and supportable judgements about how models react to current and future
of the sensitivity of the result to the application of
economic conditions
different weightings being applied to different
– Selecting model inputs and economic forecasts, including determining whether sufficient and economic assumptions
appropriately weighted economic forecasts are incorporated to calculate unbiased expected credit loss
– Making management adjustments to account for late-breaking events, model and data limitations and
deficiencies, and expert credit judgements
– Selecting applicable recovery strategies for certain wholesale credit-impaired loans
(j) Insurance contracts
A contract is classified as an insurance contract where the Group accepts significant insurance risk from another party by agreeing to
compensate that party if it is adversely affected by a specified uncertain future event. An insurance contract may also transfer financial risk, but
is accounted for as an insurance contract if the insurance risk is significant. In addition, the Group issues investment contracts with
discretionary participation features ('DPF’), which are also accounted under IFRS 17 ’Insurance Contracts’.
Aggregation of insurance contracts
Individual insurance contracts that are managed together and subject to similar risks are identified as a portfolio. Contracts that are managed
together usually belong to the same product group, and have similar characteristics such as being subject to a similar pricing framework or
similar product management, and are issued by the same legal entity. If a contract is exposed to more than one risk, the dominant risk of the
contract is used to assess whether the contract features similar risks. Each portfolio is further separated by the contract’s expected profitability.
The portfolios are split by their profitability into: (i) contracts that are onerous at initial recognition; (ii) contracts that at initial recognition have no
significant possibility of becoming onerous subsequently; and (iii) the remaining contracts. These profitability groups are then divided by issue
date, with most contracts the Group issues after the transition date being grouped into calendar quarter cohorts. For multi-currency groups of
contracts, the Group considers its groups of contracts as being denominated in a single currency.
The measurement of the insurance contract liability is based on groups of insurance contracts as established at initial recognition, and will
include fulfilment cash flows as well as the CSM representing the unearned profit. The Group’s accounting policy is to update the estimates
used in the measurement on a year-to-date basis.
Fulfilment cash flows
The fulfilment cash flows comprise the following:
Best estimates of future cash flows
The cash flows within the contract boundary of each contract in the Group include amounts expected to be collected from premiums and
payouts for claims, benefits and expenses, and are projected using a range of scenarios and assumptions in an unbiased way based on the
Group’s demographic and operating experience along with external mortality data where the Group’s own experience data is not sufficiently
large in size to be credible.
Adjustment for the time value of money and financial risks associated with the future cash flows
The estimates of future cash flows are adjusted to reflect the time value of money (i.e. discounting) and the financial risks to derive an
expected present value. The Group generally makes use of stochastic modelling techniques in the estimation for products with options and
guarantees.
A bottom-up approach is used to determine the discount rate to be applied to a given set of expected future cash flows. This is derived as the
sum of the risk-free yield and an illiquidity premium. The risk-free yield is determined based on observable market data, where such markets
are considered to be deep, liquid and transparent. When information is not available, management judgement is applied to determine the
appropriate risk-free yield. Illiquidity premiums reflect the liquidity characteristics of the associated insurance contracts.
Risk adjustment for non-financial risk
The risk adjustment reflects the compensation required for bearing the uncertainty about the amount and timing of future cash flows that arises
from non-financial risk. It is calculated as a 75th percentile level of stress over a one-year period. The level of the stress is determined with
reference to external regulatory stresses and internal economic capital stresses.
For the main insurance manufacturing entity in these locations, the one-year 75th percentile level of stress corresponds to the following
percentiles based on an ultimate view of risk over all future years:
– Asia-Pacific (Hong Kong): 60th percentile (2023: 60th percentile).
– Europe (France): 60th percentile (2023: 60th percentile).
– Latin America (Mexico): 64th percentile (2023: 65th percentile).
The Group does not disaggregate changes in the risk adjustment between insurance service result (comprising insurance revenue and
insurance service expense) and insurance finance income or expenses. All changes are included in the insurance service result.

[PAGE 365]

Measurement models
The variable fee approach (‘VFA’) measurement model is used for most of the contracts issued by the Group, which is mandatory upon
meeting the following eligibility criteria at inception:
– the contractual terms specify that the policyholder participates in a share of a clearly identified pool of underlying items;
– the Group expects to pay to the policyholder a substantial share of the fair value returns on the underlying items. The Group considers that a
substantial share is a majority of returns; and
– the Group expects a substantial proportion of any change in the amounts to be paid to the policyholder to vary with the change in fair value
of the underlying items. The Group considers that a substantial proportion is a majority proportion of change on a present value probability-
weighted average of all scenarios.
For some contracts measured under VFA, the other comprehensive income (‘OCI’) option is used. The OCI option is applied where the
underlying items held by the Group are not accounted for at fair value through profit or loss. Under this option, only the amount that matches
income or expenses recognised in profit or loss on underlying items is included in finance income or expenses for these insurance contracts,
and hence results in the elimination of accounting mismatches. The remaining amount of finance income or expenses for these insurance
contracts issued for the period is recognised in OCI. In addition, the risk mitigation option is used for a number of economic offsets against the
instruments that meet specific requirements.
The remaining contracts issued and the reinsurance contracts held are accounted for under the general measurement model (‘GMM’).
CSM and coverage units
The CSM represents the unearned profit and results in no income or expense at initial recognition when the group of contracts is profitable.
The CSM is adjusted at each subsequent reporting period for changes in fulfilment cash flows relating to future service (e.g. changes in non-
economic assumptions, including mortality and morbidity rates). For initial recognition of onerous groups of contracts and when groups of
contracts become onerous subsequently, losses are recognised in insurance service expense immediately.
For groups of contracts measured using the VFA, changes in the Group’s share of the underlying items, and economic experience and
economic assumption changes adjust the CSM, whereas these changes do not adjust the CSM under the GMM, but are recognised in profit or
loss as they arise. However, under the risk mitigation option for VFA contracts, the changes in the fulfilment cash flows and the changes in the
Group’s share in the fair value return on underlying items that the instruments mitigate are not adjusted in CSM but recognised in profit or loss.
The risk mitigating instruments are primarily reinsurance contracts held.
The CSM is systematically recognised in insurance revenue to reflect the insurance contract services provided, based on the coverage units of
the group of contracts. Coverage units are determined by the quantity of benefits and the expected coverage period of the contracts.
The Group identifies the quantity of the benefits provided as follows:
– Insurance coverage: This is based on the expected net policyholder insurance benefit at each period after allowance for decrements, where
net policyholder insurance benefit refers to the amount of sum assured less the fund value or surrender value.
– Investment services (including both investment-return service and investment-related service): This is based on a constant measure basis
which reflects the provision of access for the policyholder to the facility.
For contracts that provide both insurance coverage and investment services, coverage units are weighted according to the expected present
value of the future cash outflows for each service.
Insurance service result
Insurance revenue reflects the consideration to which the Group expects to be entitled in exchange for the provision of coverage and other insurance
contract services (excluding any investment components). Insurance service expenses comprise the incurred claims and other incurred insurance
service expenses (excluding any investment components), and losses on onerous groups of contracts and reversals of such losses.
Insurance finance income and expenses
Insurance finance income and expenses comprise the change in the carrying amount of the group of insurance contracts arising from the
effects of the time value of money, financial risk and changes therein. For VFA contracts, changes in the fair value of underlying items
(excluding additions and withdrawals) are recognised in insurance finance income or expenses.
(k) Employee compensation and benefits
Share-based payments
HSBC enters into both equity-settled and cash-settled share-based payment arrangements with its employees as compensation for the
provision of their services.
The vesting period for these schemes may commence before the legal grant date if the employees have started to render services in respect
of the award before the legal grant date, where there is a shared understanding of the terms and conditions of the arrangement. Expenses are
recognised when the employee starts to render service to which the award relates.
Cancellations result from the failure to meet a non-vesting condition during the vesting period, and are treated as an acceleration of vesting
recognised immediately in the income statement. Failure to meet a vesting condition by the employee is not treated as a cancellation, and the
amount of expense recognised for the award is adjusted to reflect the number of awards expected to vest.
Financial
statements

[PAGE 366]

Notes on the financial statements
Post-employment benefit plans
HSBC operates a number of pension schemes including defined benefit, defined contribution and other post-employment benefit schemes.
Payments to defined contribution schemes are charged as an expense as the employees render service.
Defined benefit pension obligations are calculated using the projected unit credit method. The net charge to the income statement mainly
comprises the service cost and the net interest on the net defined benefit asset or liability, and is presented in operating expenses.
Remeasurements of the net defined benefit asset or liability, which comprise actuarial gains and losses, return on plan assets (excluding
interest) and the effect of the asset ceiling (if any, excluding interest), are recognised immediately in other comprehensive income. The net
defined benefit asset or liability represents the present value of defined benefit obligations reduced by the fair value of plan assets (see Note
1.2(c)), after applying the asset ceiling test, where the net defined benefit surplus is limited to the present value of available refunds and
reductions in future contributions to the plan.
The costs of obligations arising from other post-employment plans are accounted for on the same basis as defined benefit pension plans.
Critical estimates and judgements
The most significant critical estimates relate to the determination of key assumptions applied in calculating the defined benefit pension obligation for the principal
plan.
Judgements Estimates
– A range of assumptions could be applied, and different assumptions could
significantly alter the defined benefit obligation and the amounts
recognised in profit or loss or OCI.
– The calculation of the defined benefit pension obligation includes
assumptions with regard to the discount rate, inflation rate, pension
payments and deferred pensions, pay and mortality. Management
determines these assumptions in consultation with the plan’s actuaries.
– Key assumptions used in calculating the defined benefit pension
obligation for the principal plan and the sensitivity of the calculation to
different assumptions are described in Note 5.
(l) Tax
Income tax comprises current tax and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to
items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case the tax is recognised in the same statement as the related
item appears.
Current tax is the tax expected to be payable on the taxable profit for the year and on any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous
years. HSBC provides for potential current tax liabilities that may arise on the basis of the amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the balance sheet, and the
amounts attributed to such assets and liabilities for tax purposes. Deferred tax is calculated using the tax rates expected to apply in the periods
in which the assets will be realised or the liabilities settled.
In assessing the probability and sufficiency of future taxable profit, management considers the availability of evidence to support the
recognition of deferred tax assets, taking into account the inherent risks in long-term forecasting, including climate change-related, and drivers
of recent history of tax losses where applicable. Management also considers the future reversal of existing taxable temporary differences and
tax planning strategies, including corporate reorganisations.
Current and deferred tax are calculated based on tax rates and laws enacted, or substantively enacted, by the balance sheet date.
Critical estimates and judgements
The recognition of deferred tax assets depends on judgements and estimates.
Judgements Estimates
– Specific judgements supporting deferred tax assets are described in Note 7. – The recognition of deferred tax assets is sensitive to estimates of future
cash flows projected for periods for which detailed forecasts are available
and to assumptions regarding the long-term pattern of cash flows
thereafter, on which forecasts of future taxable profit are based, and
which affect the expected recovery periods and the pattern of utilisation
of tax losses and tax credits. See Note 7 for further detail.
The Group does not consider there to be a significant risk of a material adjustment to the carrying amount of deferred tax assets in the next
financial year, but does consider this to be an area that is inherently judgemental.
(m) Provisions, contingent liabilities and guarantees
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle a present legal or constructive
obligation that has arisen as a result of past events and for which a reliable estimate can be made.

[PAGE 367]

Critical estimates and judgements
The recognition and measurement of provisions requires the Group to make a number of judgements, assumptions and estimates. The most significant are set out
below:
Judgements Estimates
– Determining whether a present obligation exists. Professional advice is taken on – Provisions for legal proceedings and regulatory matters remain very
the assessment of litigation and similar obligations. sensitive to the assumptions used in the estimate. There could be a wider
– Provisions for legal proceedings and regulatory matters typically require a higher range of possible outcomes for any pending legal proceedings,
degree of judgement than other types of provisions. When matters are at an investigations or inquiries. As a result it is often not practicable to quantify
early stage, accounting judgements can be difficult because of the high degree of a range of possible outcomes for individual matters. It is also not
uncertainty associated with determining whether a present obligation exists, and practicable to meaningfully quantify ranges of potential outcomes in
estimating the probability and amount of any outflows that may arise. As matters aggregate for these types of provisions because of the diverse nature and
progress, management and legal advisers evaluate on an ongoing basis whether circumstances of such matters and the wide range of uncertainties
provisions should be recognised, revising previous estimates as appropriate. At involved.
more advanced stages, it is typically easier to make estimates around a better
defined set of possible outcomes.
Contingent liabilities, contractual commitments and guarantees
Contingent liabilities
Contingent liabilities, which include certain guarantees and letters of credit pledged as collateral security, and contingent liabilities related to
legal proceedings or regulatory matters, are not recognised in the financial statements but are disclosed unless the probability of settlement is
remote.
Financial guarantee contracts
Liabilities under financial guarantee contracts that are not classified as insurance contracts are recorded initially at their fair value, which is
generally the fee received or present value of the fee receivable.
(n) Impairment of non-financial assets
Software under development is tested for impairment at least annually. Other non-financial assets are property, plant and equipment, intangible
assets (excluding goodwill) and right-of-use assets. They are tested for impairment at the individual asset level when there is indication of
impairment at that level, or at the CGU level for assets that do not have a recoverable amount at the individual asset level. In addition,
impairment is also tested at the CGU level when there is indication of impairment at that level. For this purpose, CGUs are considered to be the
principal operating legal entities divided by global business. Impairment testing compares the carrying amount of the non-financial asset or CGU
with its recoverable amount, which is the higher of the fair value less costs of disposal or the value in use. The carrying amount of a CGU
comprises the carrying amount of its assets and liabilities, including non-financial assets that are directly attributable to it and non-financial
assets that can be allocated to it on a reasonable and consistent basis. Non-financial assets that cannot be allocated to an individual CGU are
tested for impairment at an appropriate grouping of CGUs. The recoverable amount of the CGU is the higher of the fair value less costs of
disposal of the CGU, which is determined by independent and qualified valuers where relevant, and the value in use, which is calculated based
on appropriate inputs (see Note 21).
When the recoverable amount of a CGU is less than its carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement to the
extent that the impairment can be allocated on a pro-rata basis to the non-financial assets by reducing their carrying amounts to the higher of
their respective individual recoverable amount or nil. Impairment is not allocated to the financial assets in a CGU.
Impairment losses recognised in prior periods for non-financial assets are reversed when there has been a change in the estimate used to
determine the recoverable amount. The impairment loss is reversed to the extent that the carrying amount of the non-financial assets would
not exceed the amount that would have been determined (net of amortisation or depreciation) had no impairment loss been recognised in prior
periods.
Critical estimates and judgements
The review of goodwill and other non-financial assets for impairment reflects management’s best estimate of the future cash flows of the CGUs and the rates
used to discount these cash flows, both of which are subject to uncertain factors as described in the ‘Critical estimates and judgements’ in Note 1.2(a).
The Group does not consider there to be a significant risk of a material adjustment to the carrying amount of goodwill and non-financial assets
in the next financial year, but does consider this to be an area that is inherently judgemental.
(o) Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale
HSBC classifies non-current assets or disposal groups (including assets and liabilities) as held for sale when their carrying amounts will be
recovered principally through sale rather than through continuing use. To be classified as held for sale, the non-current asset or disposal group
must be available for immediate sale in its present condition subject only to terms that are usual and customary for sales of such assets (or
disposal groups), and the sale must be highly probable. For a sale to be highly probable, the appropriate level of management must be
committed to a plan to sell the asset (or disposal group) and an active programme to locate a buyer and complete the plan must have been
initiated. Further, the asset (or disposal group) must be actively marketed for sale at a price that is reasonable in relation to its current fair value.
In addition, the sale should be expected to qualify as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification and actions required to
complete the plan should indicate that it is unlikely that significant changes to the plan will be made or that the plan will be withdrawn.
Held for sale assets and disposal groups are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell except for those
assets and liabilities that are not within the scope of the measurement requirements of IFRS 5. If the carrying amount of the non-current asset
(or disposal group) is greater than the fair value less costs to sell, an impairment loss for any initial or subsequent write-down of the asset or
disposal group to fair value less costs to sell is recognised. Any such impairment loss is first allocated against the non-current assets that are in
scope of IFRS 5 for measurement. This first reduces the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the disposal group, and then to the other
non-current assets of the disposal group pro rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the disposal group. Thereafter, any
impairment loss in excess of the carrying amount of the non-current assets in scope of IFRS 5 for measurement is recognised against the total
assets of the disposal group.
Financial
statements

[PAGE 368]

Notes on the financial statements
2 Net fee income
Net fee income by global business
2024
Wealth and Global
Personal Commercial Banking and Corporate
Banking Banking Markets Centre Total
$m $m $m $m $m
Funds under management 1,864 78 497 — 2,439
Cards 2,448 351 44 — 2,843
Credit facilities 85 722 621 — 1,428
Broking income 561 13 716 — 1,290
Account services 348 791 360 — 1,499
Unit trusts 1,060 10 1 — 1,071
Underwriting — 8 683 — 691
Global custody 120 7 704 — 831
Remittances 77 387 361 — 825
Imports/exports — 463 182 — 645
Insurance agency commission 329 18 — — 347
Other 1,551 1,249 2,725 (3,168) 2,357
Fee income 8,443 4,097 6,894 (3,168) 16,266
Less: fee expense (2,513) (245) (4,348) 3,141 (3,965)
Net fee income 5,930 3,852 2,546 (27) 12,301
2023
Wealth and Global
Personal Commercial Banking and Corporate
Banking Banking Markets Centre Total
$m $m $m $m $m
Funds under management 1,763 71 539 — 2,373
Cards 2,385 353 38 — 2,776
Credit facilities 103 856 615 — 1,574
Broking income 463 22 592 — 1,077
Account services 402 788 347 — 1,537
Unit trusts 727 10 1 — 738
Underwriting — 3 583 — 586
Global custody 128 6 730 — 864
Remittances 86 389 347 1 823
Imports/exports — 470 154 — 624
Insurance agency commission 280 18 — — 298
Other 1,433 1,161 2,458 (2,706) 2,346
Fee income 7,770 4,147 6,404 (2,705) 15,616
Less: fee expense (2,416) (210) (3,858) 2,713 (3,771)
Net fee income 5,354 3,937 2,546 8 11,845
2022
Wealth and Global
Personal Commercial Banking and Corporate
Banking Banking Markets Centre Total
$m $m $m $m $m
Funds under management 1,765 107 500 (12) 2,360
Cards 2,146 313 32 — 2,491
Credit facilities 100 783 591 — 1,474
Broking income 576 40 635 — 1,251
Account services 337 730 344 1 1,412
Unit trusts 682 14 — — 696
Underwriting 1 2 443 (5) 441
Global custody 140 19 762 — 921
Remittances 72 380 346 1 799
Imports/exports — 493 141 — 634
Insurance agency commission 283 16 1 — 300
Other 1,330 1,102 2,376 (2,463) 2,345
Fee income 7,432 3,999 6,171 (2,478) 15,124
Less: fee expense (2,128) (212) (3,459) 2,445 (3,354)
Net fee income 5,304 3,787 2,712 (33) 11,770
Net fee income included $6,816m of fees earned on financial assets that were not at fair value through profit or loss, other than amounts
included in determining the effective interest rate (2023: $6,971m; 2022: $6,410m), $1,951m of fees payable on financial liabilities that were
not at fair value through profit or loss, other than amounts included in determining the effective interest rate (2023: $1,872m; 2022: $1,613m),
$3,480m of fees earned on trust and other fiduciary activities (2023: $3,452m; 2022: $3,492m) and $401m of fees payable relating to trust and
other fiduciary activities (2023: $333m; 2022: $370m).

[PAGE 369]

3 Net income/(expense) from financial instruments measured at fair value
through profit or loss
2024 2023 2022
$m $m $m
Net income/(expense) arising on:
Net trading activities 23,186 20,391 2,372
Other instruments managed on a fair value basis (2,070) (3,730) 7,906
Net income from financial instruments held for trading or managed on a fair value basis 21,116 16,661 10,278
Financial assets held to meet liabilities under insurance and investment contracts 6,210 8,086 (14,392)
Liabilities to customers under investment contracts (309) (199) 561
Net income/(expense) from assets and liabilities of insurance businesses, including related
derivatives, measured at fair value through profit or loss 5,901 7,887 (13,831)
HSBC Holdings
2024 2023 2022
$m $m $m
Net income/(expense) arising on:
Net trading activities 984 (546) 2,094
Other instruments managed on a fair value basis 1,915 1,609 35
Net income from financial instruments held for trading or managed on a fair value basis 2,899 1,063 2,129
Derivatives managed in conjunction with HSBC Holdings-issued debt securities 93 426 (1,529)
Other changes in fair value (218) (1,894) 3,673
Changes in fair value of designated debt and related derivatives (125) (1,468) 2,144
Changes in fair value of other financial instruments mandatorily measured at fair value through profit
or loss 2,086 3,692 (2,409)
Year ended 31 Dec 4,860 3,287 1,864
4 Insurance business
Insurance service result
Year ended 31 Dec 2024 Year ended 31 Dec 2023
Life direct Life direct
participating participating and
and investment Life other investment DPF Life other
DPF contracts1 contracts2 Total contracts1 contracts2 Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m
Insurance revenue
Amounts relating to changes in liabilities for remaining coverage 1,890 566 2,456 1,626 470 2,096
– Contractual service margin recognised for services provided 1,143 188 1,331 975 151 1,126
– Change in risk adjustment for non-financial risk for risk expired 46 20 66 21 15 36
– Expected incurred claims and other insurance service expenses 698 358 1,056 594 304 898
– Other 3 — 3 36 — 36
Recovery of insurance acquisition cash flows 195 101 296 109 54 163
Total insurance revenue 2,085 667 2,752 1,735 524 2,259
Insurance service expenses
Incurred claims and other insurance service expenses (616) (428) (1,044) (615) (292) (907)
Losses and reversal of losses on onerous contracts (50) (73) (123) (32) (77) (109)
Amortisation of insurance acquisition cash flows (195) (101) (296) (109) (54) (163)
Adjustments to liabilities for incurred claims (6) 27 21 (1) (1) (2)
Total insurance service expenses (867) (575) (1,442) (757) (424) (1,181)
Total insurance service result 1,218 92 1,310 978 100 1,078
1 ‘Life direct participating and investment DPF contracts’ are substantially measured under the variable fee approach measurement model.
2 ‘Life other contracts’ are measured under the general measurement model.
Financial
statements

[PAGE 370]

Notes on the financial statements
Net investment return
Year ended 31 Dec 2024 Year ended 31 Dec 2023
Life direct Life direct
participating participating
and and
investment Life other investment Life other
DPF contracts contracts Total DPF contracts contracts Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m
Investment return
Amounts recognised in profit or loss1 5,644 273 5,917 7,663 214 7,877
Amounts recognised in OCI2 185 — 185 493 — 493
Total investment return (memorandum) 5,829 273 6,102 8,156 214 8,370
Net finance expense
Changes in fair value of underlying items of direct participating contracts (5,805) — (5,805) (7,995) — (7,995)
Effect of risk mitigation option 44 — 44 (35) — (35)
Interest accreted — (110) (110) — (127) (127)
Effect of changes in interest rates and other financial assumptions — (298) (298) (12) (121) (133)
Effect of measuring changes in estimates at current rates and adjusting
the CSM at rates on initial recognition — — — — (10) (10)
Total net finance expense from insurance contracts (5,761) (408) (6,169) (8,042) (258) (8,300)
Represented by:
Amounts recognised in profit or loss (5,570) (408) (5,978) (7,551) (258) (7,809)
Amounts recognised in OCI (191) — (191) (491) — (491)
Total net investment return 68 (135) (67) 114 (44) 70
Represented by:
Amounts recognised in profit or loss 74 (135) (61) 112 (44) 68
Amounts recognised in OCI (6) — (6) 2 — 2
1 Total Group ‘Net income/(expense) from assets and liabilities of insurance business, including related derivatives, measured at fair value through profit or loss’ of
$5,901m gain (2023: $7,886m gain) includes returns on assets and liabilities supporting insurance policies of $5,685m (2023: $7,627m loss) and on shareholder
assets of $216m (2023: $259m gain). Investment returns of $5,917m (2023: $7,877m gain) include gains of $5,685m (2023: $7,627m gain) on underlying assets
supporting insurance liabilities reported in ‘Net income/(expense) from assets and liabilities of insurance businesses, including related derivatives, measured at
fair value through profit or loss’, $235m gains (2023: $257m gain) reported in ‘Net interest income’ and $3m loss (2023: $7m loss) reported in ‘Other operating
income’.
2 ‘Amounts recognised in OCI’ insurance investment income comprises of fair value gains of $185m (2023: $497m gain) and expected credit (recoveries)/losses
of nil (2023: $4m loss). The Group statement of comprehensive income statement ‘Debt instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income – fair
value gains/(losses)’ gain of $41m (2023: $2,381m gain) includes insurance investment income recognised in OCI of $185m gain (2023: $497m gain) and ‘Debt
instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income - expected credit (recoveries)/losses recognised in the income statement’ recovery of $6m (2023:
$59m loss) includes insurance expected credit (recoveries)/losses recognised in OCI of nil (2023: $4m loss).
Reconciliation of amounts included in other comprehensive income for financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive
income – assets supporting contracts measured under the modified retrospective approach
2024 2023
$m $m
Balance at 1 Jan (670) (973)
Net change in fair value (153) 451
Net amount reclassified to profit or loss 3 (6)
Related income tax 39 (115)
Foreign exchange and other 45 (27)
Balance at 31 Dec (736) (670)

[PAGE 371]

Movements in carrying amounts of insurance contracts – analysis by remaining coverage and incurred claims
Year ended 31 Dec 2024
Life direct participating and investment DPF
contracts Life other contracts
Liabilities for remaining Liabilities for remaining
coverage: coverage:
Excluding Excluding
loss Loss Incurred loss Loss Incurred
component component claims Total component component claims Total Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Opening assets (15) 1 1 (13) (279) (16) 56 (239) (252)
Opening liabilities 116,546 121 370 117,037 3,400 191 223 3,814 120,851
Net opening balance at 1 Jan 2024 116,531 122 371 117,024 3,121 175 279 3,575 120,599
Changes in the consolidated income
statement and statement of
comprehensive income
Insurance revenue
Contracts under the fair value approach1 (715) — — (715) (217) — — (217) (932)
Contracts under the modified
retrospective approach (141) — — (141) (18) — — (18) (159)
Other contracts2 (1,229) — — (1,229) (432) — — (432) (1,661)
Total insurance revenue (2,085) — — (2,085) (667) — — (667) (2,752)
Insurance service expenses
Incurred claims and other insurance
service expenses — (7) 623 616 — (49) 477 428 1,044
Amortisation of insurance acquisition
cash flows 195 — — 195 101 — — 101 296
Losses and reversal of losses on
onerous contracts — 50 — 50 — 73 — 73 123
Adjustments to liabilities for incurred
claims — — 6 6 — — (27) (27) (21)
Total insurance service expenses 195 43 629 867 101 24 450 575 1,442
Investment components (8,284) — 8,284 — (1,058) — 1,058 — —
Insurance service result (10,174) 43 8,913 (1,218) (1,624) 24 1,508 (92) (1,310)
Net finance expense from insurance
contracts3 5,720 41 — 5,761 405 3 — 408 6,169
Other movements recognised in the
statement of profit or loss — — — — — — — — —
Effect of movements in exchange rates (1,162) (5) (9) (1,176) (76) 1 (24) (99) (1,275)
Total changes in the consolidated
income statement and statement of
comprehensive income (5,616) 79 8,904 3,367 (1,295) 28 1,484 217 3,584
Cash flows
Premiums received 16,442 — — 16,442 1,950 — — 1,950 18,392
Claims, other insurance service
expenses paid and other cash flows 2 — (9,020) (9,018) 2 — (1,508) (1,506) (10,524)
Insurance acquisition cash flows (835) — — (835) (260) — — (260) (1,095)
Total cash flows 15,609 — (9,020) 6,589 1,692 — (1,508) 184 6,773
Other movements4 (23,495) (54) (31) (23,580) 53 8 60 121 (23,459)
Net closing balance at 31 Dec 2024 103,029 147 224 103,400 3,571 211 315 4,097 107,497
Closing assets (16) 1 1 (14) (177) (13) 72 (118) (132)
Closing liabilities 103,045 146 223 103,414 3,748 224 243 4,215 107,629
Net closing balance at 31 Dec 2024 103,029 147 224 103,400 3,571 211 315 4,097 107,497
Financial
statements

[PAGE 372]

Notes on the financial statements
Movements in carrying amounts of insurance contracts – analysis by remaining coverage and incurred claims (continued)
Year ended 31 Dec 2023
Life direct participating and investment DPF
contracts Life other contracts
Liabilities for remaining Liabilities for remaining
coverage: coverage:
Excluding Excluding
loss Loss Incurred loss Loss Incurred
component component claims Total component component claims Total Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Opening assets (5) — — (5) (187) 21 35 (131) (136)
Opening liabilities 104,676 114 355 105,145 3,359 109 203 3,671 108,816
Net opening balance at 1 Jan 2023 104,671 114 355 105,140 3,172 130 238 3,540 108,680
Changes in the consolidated income
statement and statement of comprehensive
income
Insurance revenue
Contracts under the fair value approach1 (508) — — (508) (196) — — (196) (704)
Contracts under the modified retrospective
approach (148) — — (148) (22) — — (22) (170)
Other contracts2 (1,079) — — (1,079) (306) — — (306) (1,385)
Total insurance revenue (1,735) — — (1,735) (524) — — (524) (2,259)
Insurance service expenses
Incurred claims and other insurance service
expenses — (6) 621 615 — (24) 316 292 907
Amortisation of insurance acquisition cash
flows 109 — — 109 54 — — 54 163
Losses and reversal of losses on onerous
contracts — 32 — 32 — 77 — 77 109
Adjustments to liabilities for incurred claims — — 1 1 — — 1 1 2
Total insurance service expenses 109 26 622 757 54 53 317 424 1,181
Investment components (8,104) — 8,104 — (818) — 818 — —
Insurance service result (9,730) 26 8,726 (978) (1,288) 53 1,135 (100) (1,078)
Net finance expense from insurance
contracts3 8,042 — — 8,042 254 3 1 258 8,300
Other movements recognised in the
statement of profit or loss 513 (5) (214) 294 (8) 4 (13) (17) 277
Effect of movements in exchange rates 942 1 6 949 25 (2) 8 31 980
Total changes in the consolidated income
statement and statement of comprehensive
income (233) 22 8,518 8,307 (1,017) 58 1,131 172 8,479
Cash flows
Premiums received 12,616 — — 12,616 1,256 — — 1,256 13,872
Claims, other insurance service expenses
paid and other cash flows (15) — (8,502) (8,517) 1 — (1,112) (1,111) (9,628)
Insurance acquisition cash flows (522) — — (522) (282) — — (282) (804)
Total cash flows 12,079 — (8,502) 3,577 975 — (1,112) (137) 3,440
Acquisition of subsidiaries and other
movements 14 (14) — — (9) (13) 22 — —
Net closing balance at 31 Dec 2023 116,531 122 371 117,024 3,121 175 279 3,575 120,599
Closing assets (15) 1 1 (13) (279) (16) 56 (239) (252)
Closing liabilities 116,546 121 370 117,037 3,400 191 223 3,814 120,851
Net closing balance at 31 Dec 2023 116,531 122 371 117,024 3,121 175 279 3,575 120,599
1 On transition to IFRS 17 the Group applied the full retrospective approach to new business written from 2018 at the earliest. Where applying the full
retrospective approach was impracticable, the Group primarily applied the fair value approach.
2 ‘Other contracts’ are those contracts measured by applying IFRS 17 from inception of the contracts. These include contracts measured under the full
retrospective approach at transition and contracts incepted after transition.
3 ‘Net finance expense from insurance contracts’ expense of $6,169m (2023: $8,300m expense) comprises expense of $5,978m (2023: $7,809m expense)
recognised in the income statement and expense of $191m (2023: $491m expense) recognised in other comprehensive income.
4 The ‘Other movements‘ reduction of $23,459m in insurance contracts includes $21,811m in respect of our French insurance business, classified as held for sale
at 31 December 2024. Further details are provided on page 412.

[PAGE 373]

Movements in carrying amounts of insurance contracts – analysis by measurement component
Year ended 31 Dec 2024
Life direct participating and investment DPF contracts Life other contracts
Contractual service margin Contractual service margin
Estimates Estimates
of present Contracts of present Contracts
value of Contracts under the value of under the
future cash under the modified future cash Contracts modified
flows and fair value retros- Other flows and under the retros- Other
risk approach pective contracts risk fair value pective contracts
adjustment 1 approach 2 Total adjustment approach1 approach 2 Total Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Opening assets (30) 3 — 14 (13) (339) 36 — 64 (239) (252)
Opening liabilities 106,440 4,679 715 5,203 117,037 3,113 361 19 321 3,814 120,851
Net opening balance at
1 Jan 2024 106,410 4,682 715 5,217 117,024 2,774 397 19 385 3,575 120,599
Changes in the
consolidated income
statement and
statement of
comprehensive income
Changes that relate to
current services
Contractual service
margin recognised for
services provided — (488) (59) (596) (1,143) — (77) (6) (105) (188) (1,331)
Change in risk adjustment
for non-financial risk
expired (46) — — — (46) (20) — — — (20) (66)
Experience adjustments (82) — — — (82) 70 — — — 70 (12)
Other movements
recognised in insurance
service result — 52 — (55) (3) — — — — — (3)
Changes that relate to
future services
Contracts initially
recognised in the year (2,384) — — 2,400 16 (201) — — 220 19 35
Changes in estimates that
adjust the contractual
service margin3 (914) 229 (6) 691 — (7) 30 7 (30) — —
Changes in estimates that
result in losses and
reversal of losses on
onerous contracts 34 — — — 34 54 — — — 54 88
Changes that relate to
past services
Adjustments to liabilities
for incurred claims 6 — — — 6 (27) — — — (27) (21)
Insurance service result (3,386) (207) (65) 2,440 (1,218) (131) (47) 1 85 (92) (1,310)
Net finance expense from
insurance contracts4 5,761 — — — 5,761 380 12 — 16 408 6,169
Other movements
recognised in the
statement of profit or loss — — — — — — — — — — —
Effect of movements in
exchange rates (1,167) 51 (24) (36) (1,176) (50) (11) — (38) (99) (1,275)
Total changes in the
consolidated income
statement and
statement of
comprehensive income 1,208 (156) (89) 2,404 3,367 199 (46) 1 63 217 3,584
Cash flows
Premiums received 16,442 — — — 16,442 1,950 — — — 1,950 18,392
Claims, other insurance
service expenses paid and
other cash flows (9,018) — — — (9,018) (1,506) — — — (1,506) (10,524)
Insurance acquisition cash
flows (835) — — — (835) (260) — — — (260) (1,095)
Total cash flows 6,589 — — — 6,589 184 — — — 184 6,773
Other movements5 (22,736) (23) (626) (195) (23,580) 153 2 (20) (14) 121 (23,459)
Net closing balance at
31 Dec 2024 91,471 4,503 — 7,426 103,400 3,310 353 — 434 4,097 107,497
Closing assets (27) 3 — 10 (14) (359) 73 — 168 (118) (132)
Closing liabilities 91,498 4,500 — 7,416 103,414 3,669 280 — 266 4,215 107,629
Net closing balance at
31 Dec 2024 91,471 4,503 — 7,426 103,400 3,310 353 — 434 4,097 107,497
Financial
statements

[PAGE 374]

Notes on the financial statements
Movements in carrying amounts of insurance contracts – analysis by measurement component (continued)
Year ended 31 Dec 2023
Life direct participating and investment DPF contracts Life other contracts
Estimates Contractual service margin Estimates Contractual service margin
of present Contracts of present Contracts
value of under the value of Contracts under the
future cash Contracts modified future cash under the modified
flows and under the retros- Other flows and fair value retros- Other
risk fair value pective contracts risk approach pective contracts
adjustment approach1 approach 2 Total adjustment 1 approach 2 Total Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Opening assets (18) 3 — 10 (5) (308) 86 — 91 (131) (136)
Opening liabilities 96,174 4,364 792 3,815 105,145 3,162 325 18 166 3,671 108,816
Net opening balance at 1 Jan
2023 96,156 4,367 792 3,825 105,140 2,854 411 18 257 3,540 108,680
Changes in the consolidated
income statement and
statement of comprehensive
income
Changes that relate to current
services
Contractual service margin
recognised for services provided — (188) (70) (717) (975) — (69) (6) (76) (151) (1,126)
Change in risk adjustment for
non-financial risk expired (21) — — — (21) (15) — — — (15) (36)
Experience adjustments 21 — — — 21 (12) — — — (12) 9
Other movements recognised in
insurance service result (36) — — — (36) — — — — — (36)
Changes that relate to future
services
Contracts initially recognised in
the year (1,606) — — 1,619 13 (176) — — 207 31 44
Changes in estimates that adjust
contractual service margin3 (771) 368 (33) 436 — 21 26 6 (53) — —
Changes in estimates that result
in losses and reversal of losses
on onerous contracts 19 — — — 19 46 — — — 46 65
Changes that relate to past
services
Adjustments to liabilities for
incurred claims 1 — — — 1 1 — — — 1 2
Insurance service result (2,393) 180 (103) 1,338 (978) (135) (43) — 78 (100) (1,078)
Net finance expense from
insurance contracts4 8,042 — — — 8,042 235 11 — 12 258 8,300
Other movements recognised in
the statement of profit or loss 145 133 (1) 17 294 (43) 6 — 20 (17) 277
Effect of movements in
exchange rates 883 2 27 37 949 — 12 1 18 31 980
Total changes in the
consolidated income statement
and statement of
comprehensive income 6,677 315 (77) 1,392 8,307 57 (14) 1 128 172 8,479
Cash flows
Premiums received 12,616 — — — 12,616 1,256 — — — 1,256 13,872
Claims, other insurance service
expenses paid and other cash
flows (8,517) — — — (8,517) (1,111) — — — (1,111) (9,628)
Insurance acquisition cash flows (522) — — — (522) (282) — — — (282) (804)
Total cash flows 3,577 — — — 3,577 (137) — — — (137) 3,440
Other movements — — — — — — — — — — —
Net closing balance at
31 Dec 2023 106,410 4,682 715 5,217 117,024 2,774 397 19 385 3,575 120,599
Closing assets (30) 3 — 14 (13) (339) 36 — 64 (239) (252)
Closing liabilities 106,440 4,679 715 5,203 117,037 3,113 361 19 321 3,814 120,851
Net closing balance at
31 Dec 2023 106,410 4,682 715 5,217 117,024 2,774 397 19 385 3,575 120,599
1 On transition to IFRS 17 the Group applied the full retrospective approach to new business written from 2018 at the earliest. Where applying the full
retrospective approach was impracticable, the Group primarily applied the fair value approach.
2 ‘Other contracts' are those contracts measured by applying IFRS 17 from inception of the contracts. These include contracts measured under the full
retrospective approach at transition and contracts incepted after transition.
3 ‘Changes in estimates that adjust contractual service margin’ increase of $921m (2023: $750m increase) includes an increase of $651m (2023: $233m increase)
from economic factors and an increase of $270m (2023: $517m increase) from non-economic factors.
4 ‘Net finance expense from insurance contracts’ expense of $6,169m (2023: $8,300m expense) comprises expense of $5,978m (2023: $7,809m expense)
recognised in the income statement and expense of $191m (2023: $491m expense) recognised in other comprehensive income.
5 ‘Other movements‘ $23,459m reduction in insurance contracts includes $21,811m in respect of the classification of the France insurance business to held for
sale at 31 December 2024. Further details are provided on page 412.

[PAGE 375]

Effect of contracts initially recognised in the year
Year ended 31 Dec 2024 Year ended 31 Dec 2023
Profitable Onerous Profitable Onerous
contracts contracts contracts contracts
issued issued Total issued issued Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m
Life direct participating and investment DPF contracts
Estimates of present value of cash outflows 16,878 495 17,373 12,418 215 12,633
– insurance acquisition cash flows 805 38 843 602 21 623
– claims and other insurance service expenses payable 16,073 457 16,530 11,816 194 12,010
Estimates of present value of cash inflows (19,326) (481) (19,807) (14,074) (204) (14,278)
Risk adjustment for non-financial risk 48 2 50 37 2 39
Contractual service margin 2,400 — 2,400 1,619 — 1,619
(Losses) recognised on initial recognition — (16) (16) — (13) (13)
Life other contracts
Estimates of present value of cash outflows 1,484 476 1,960 1,116 464 1,580
– insurance acquisition cash flows 125 65 190 106 50 156
– claims and other insurance service expenses payable 1,359 411 1,770 1,010 414 1,424
Estimates of present value of cash inflows (1,731) (460) (2,191) (1,350) (438) (1,788)
Risk adjustment for non-financial risk 27 3 30 27 5 32
Contractual service margin 220 — 220 207 — 207
(Losses) recognised on initial recognition — (19) (19) — (31) (31)
Present value of expected future cash flows of insurance contract liabilities and contractual service margin
Less
than 1 1–2 2–3 3–4 4–5 5–10 10–20 Over 20
year years years years years years years years Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
2024
Insurance liability future cash flows1
Life direct participating and investment DPF contracts (3,526) (455) 2,464 2,968 3,219 11,332 22,005 53,120 91,127
Life other contracts 971 (96) (101) (53) 7 63 279 2,529 3,599
Insurance liability future cash flows at 31 Dec (2,555) (551) 2,363 2,915 3,226 11,395 22,284 55,649 94,726
Remaining contractual service margin1
Life direct participating and investment DPF contracts 1,052 961 880 810 746 2,892 2,954 1,634 11,929
Life other contracts 128 104 85 69 53 159 127 62 787
Remaining contractual service margin at 31 Dec 1,180 1,065 965 879 799 3,051 3,081 1,696 12,716
2023
Insurance liability future cash flows
Life direct participating and investment DPF contracts (2,620) (545) 2,321 2,419 3,344 11,695 23,351 65,897 105,862
Life other contracts 1,276 362 (347) 4 (45) 36 102 1,628 3,016
Insurance liability future cash flows at 31 Dec (1,344) (183) 1,974 2,423 3,299 11,731 23,453 67,525 108,878
Remaining contractual service margin
Life direct participating and investment DPF contracts 917 848 783 722 666 2,597 2,653 1,428 10,614
Life other contracts 172 113 84 74 61 141 115 41 801
Remaining contractual service margin at 31 Dec 1,089 961 867 796 727 2,738 2,768 1,469 11,415
1 ‘Insurance liability future cash flows’ and ‘Remaining contractual service margin’ at 31 December 2024 exclude the French insurance business that was
classified as held for sale at 31 December 2024. Further details are provided on page 412.
Discount rates
The discount rates applied to expected future cash flows are determined through a bottom-up approach as set out in Note 1.2(j) ‘Summary of
material accounting policies – Insurance contracts’ on page 354. The blended average of discount rates used within our most material
manufacturing entities are as follows:
HSBC Assurances
HSBC Life (International) Ltd Hang Seng Insurance Co Ltd Vie (France)
HK$ US$ HK$ US$ €
At 31 Dec 2024
10-year discount rate (%) 4.32 5.16 4.43 5.25 2.97
20-year discount rate (%) 4.42 5.51 4.53 5.60 2.95
At 31 Dec 2023
10-year discount rate (%) 4.02 4.47 4.16 4.62 2.96
20-year discount rate (%) 4.21 4.91 4.34 5.06 2.97
Financial
statements

[PAGE 376]

Notes on the financial statements
5 Employee compensation and benefits
2024 2023 2022
$m $m $m
Employee compensation and benefits1 18,465 18,220 18,003
Capitalised wages and salaries2 1,688 1,403 1,285
Gross employee compensation and benefits for the year ended 31 Dec 20,153 19,623 19,288
Consists of:
Wages and salaries 17,815 17,359 16,970
Social security costs 1,487 1,507 1,403
Post-employment benefits 851 757 915
Year ended 31 Dec 20,153 19,623 19,288
1 Employee compensation and benefits are presented in the income statement net of software capitalisation costs and costs included in the insurance contract
fulfilment cash flow liabilities under IFRS 17.
2 Comprises $1,118m (2023: $1,043m; 2022: $922m) software capitalisation costs and $570m (2023: $360m; 2022: $363m) costs included in the insurance
contract fulfilment cash flow liabilities under IFRS 17.
Average number of persons employed by HSBC during the year by global business1
2024 2023 2022
Wealth and Personal Banking 125,068 132,336 135,676
Commercial Banking 47,135 46,826 48,004
Global Banking and Markets 48,351 48,043 48,597
Corporate Centre 374 347 365
Year ended 31 Dec 220,928 227,552 232,642
1 Average number of persons employed represents the number of persons with contracts of service with the Group.
Average number of persons employed by HSBC during the year by legal entity1
2024 2023 2022
HSBC UK Bank plc 20,034 20,415 20,501
HSBC Bank plc 11,456 14,809 15,405
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited 54,478 54,321 54,792
HSBC Bank Middle East Limited 3,344 3,316 3,338
HSBC North America Holdings Inc. 5,928 6,046 6,749
HSBC Bank Canada 758 4,354 4,241
Grupo Financiero HSBC, S.A. de C.V. 13,928 14,412 14,484
Other trading entities2 8,393 9,247 10,026
Holding companies, shared service centres and intra-Group eliminations 102,609 100,632 103,106
Year ended 31 Dec 220,928 227,552 232,642
1 Average number of persons employed represents the number of persons with contracts of service with the Group.
2 Other trading entities includes entities located in Türkiye, Egypt and Saudi Arabia.
Reconciliation of total incentive awards granted to income statement charge
2024 2023 2022
$m $m $m
Total incentive awards approved for the current year 3,800 3,774 3,359
Less: deferred bonuses awarded, expected to be recognised in future periods (381) (353) (343)
Total incentives awarded and recognised in the current year 3,419 3,421 3,016
Add: current year charges for deferred bonuses from previous years 439 375 239
Other (97) (56) (22)
Income statement charge for incentive awards 3,761 3,740 3,233
Share-based payments
‘Wages and salaries’ includes the effect of share-based payments arrangements, of which $529m (2023: $482m; 2022: $400m) was equity
settled, as follows:
2024 2023 2022
$m $m $m
Conditional share awards 551 499 402
Savings-related and other share award option plans 27 23 22
Year ended 31 Dec 578 522 424

[PAGE 377]

HSBC share awards
Award Policy
Deferred share awards An assessment of performance over the relevant period ending on 31 December is used to determine the amount of the award
(including annual incentive to be granted.
awards, long-term incentive – Deferred awards generally require employees to remain in employment over the vesting period and are generally not subject
(‘LTI’) awards delivered in to performance conditions after the grant date. An exception to these are LTI awards, which are subject to performance
shares)
conditions.
– Deferred share awards generally vest over a period of three, four, five or seven years.
– Vested shares may be subject to a retention requirement post-vesting.
– Awards are generally subject to malus and clawback provisions.
International Employee Share The plan was first introduced in Hong Kong in 2013 and now includes employees based in 30 jurisdictions.
Purchase Plan (‘ShareMatch’) – Shares are purchased in the market each quarter up to a maximum value of £750, or the equivalent in local currency.
– Matching awards are added at a ratio of one free share for every three purchased. In mainland China, matching awards are
settled in cash.
– Matching awards vest subject to continued employment and the retention of the purchased shares for a maximum period of
two years and nine months.
Movement on HSBC share awards
2024 2023
Number Number
(000s) (000s)
Conditional share awards outstanding at 1 Jan 125,023 126,246
Additions during the year 84,930 72,289
Released in the year (71,849) (70,054)
Forfeited in the year (4,461) (3,458)
Conditional share awards outstanding at 31 Dec 133,643 125,023
Weighted average fair value of awards granted ($) 6.08 5.84
HSBC share option plans
Main plans Policy
Savings-related share option – From 2014, employees eligible for the UK plan could save up to £500 per month with the option to use the savings to acquire
plans (‘Sharesave’) shares.
– These are generally exercisable within six months following either the third or fifth anniversary of the commencement of a
three-year or five-year contract, respectively.
– The exercise price is set at a 20% (2023: 20%) discount to the market value immediately preceding the date of invitation.
Calculation of fair values
The fair values of share options are calculated using a Black-Scholes model. The fair value of a share award is based on the share price at the
date of the grant.
Movement on HSBC share option plans
Savings-related
share option plans
Number WAEP1
(000s) £
Outstanding at 1 Jan 2024 83,994 3.42
Granted during the year2 11,845 5.30
Exercised during the year3 (16,776) 2.94
Expired during the year (2,454) 4.20
Forfeited during the year (1,274) 3.48
Outstanding at 31 Dec 2024 75,335 3.81
– of which exercisable 1,446 3.34
Weighted average remaining contractual life (years) 2.10
Outstanding at 1 Jan 2023 115,651 2.89
Granted during the year2 23,382 4.70
Exercised during the year3 (49,007) 2.73
Expired during the year (3,832) 3.78
Forfeited during the year (2,200) 2.88
Outstanding at 31 Dec 2023 83,994 3.42
– of which exercisable 7,165 2.70
Weighted average remaining contractual life (years) 2.41
1 Weighted average exercise price.
2 The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year was $1.66 (2023: $1.92).
3 The weighted average share price at the date the options were exercised was $8.54 (2023: $7.39).
Financial
statements

[PAGE 378]

Notes on the financial statements
Post-employment benefit plans
The Group operates pension plans throughout the world for its employees. ‘Pension risk management processes’ on page 203 contains details
of the policies and practices associated with these pension plans, some of which are defined benefit plans. The largest defined benefit plan is
the HSBC UK section of the HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme (‘the principal plan’), created as a result of the HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme
being fully sectionalised in 2018 to meet the requirements of the Banking Reform Act. For further details of how the trustee of the HSBC Bank
(UK) Pension Scheme manages climate risk, see ’Managing climate risk’ on page 60.
HSBC holds on its balance sheet the net surplus or deficit, which is the difference between the fair value of plan assets and the discounted
value of scheme liabilities at the balance sheet date for each plan. Surpluses are only recognised to the extent that they are recoverable
through reduced contributions in the future or through potential future refunds from the schemes. In assessing whether a surplus is
recoverable, HSBC has considered its current right to obtain a future refund or a reduction in future contributions together with the rights of
third parties such as trustees.
The principal plan
The principal plan has a defined benefit section and a defined contribution section. The defined benefit section was closed to future benefit
accrual in 2015, with defined benefits earned by employees at that date continuing to be linked to their salary while they remain employed by
HSBC. The plan is overseen by an independent corporate trustee, who has a fiduciary responsibility for the operation of the plan. Its assets are
held separately from the assets of the Group.
The investment strategy of the plan is to hold the majority of assets in bonds, with the remainder in a diverse range of investments. It also
includes some interest rate swaps to reduce interest rate risk, inflation swaps to reduce inflation risk and longevity swaps to reduce the impact
of longer life expectancy.
The principal plan is subject to the statutory funding objective requirements of the UK Pensions Act 2004, which requires that it be funded to at
least the level of technical provisions (an actuarial estimate of the assets needed to provide for the benefits already built up under the plan).
Where a funding valuation is carried out and identifies a deficit, the employer and trustee are required to agree to a deficit recovery plan.
The latest funding valuation of the plan at 31 December 2022 was carried out by Towers Watson Limited, using the projected unit credit
method. At that date, the market value of the plan’s assets was £23.9bn ($28.8bn) and this exceeded the value placed on its liabilities on an
ongoing basis by £3.7bn ($4.4bn), giving a funding level of 118%. These figures include defined contribution assets amounting to £3.0bn
($3.6bn). The main differences between the assumptions used for assessing the defined benefit liabilities for this funding valuation and those
used for IAS 19 are that an element of prudence is contained in the funding valuation assumptions for discount rate, inflation rate and life
expectancy. The funding valuation is used to judge the amount of cash contributions the Group needs to put into the pension scheme. It will
always be different to the IAS 19 accounting surplus, which is an accounting rule concerning employee benefits and shown on the balance
sheet of our financial statements. The next funding valuation will be performed in 2026, with an effective date of 31 December 2025.
The actuary also assessed the value of the liabilities if the plan were to have been stopped and an insurance company asked to secure all future
pension payments. This is generally larger than the amount needed on the ongoing basis described above because an insurance company
would use more prudent assumptions, which would allow for reserves and include an explicit allowance for the future administrative expenses
of the plan. Under this approach, the amount of assets needed was estimated to be £21.3bn ($25.7bn) at 31 December 2022.
The trust deed gives the ability for HSBC UK to take a refund of surplus assets after the plan has been run down such that no further
beneficiaries remain. In assessing whether a surplus is recoverable, HSBC UK has considered its right to obtain a future refund together with
the rights of third parties such as trustees. On this basis, any net surplus in the HSBC UK section of the plan is recognised in HSBC UK’s
financial statements and the Group’s financial statements.
Income statement charge/(credit)
2024 2023 2022
$m $m $m
Defined benefit pension plans (116) (151) 42
Defined contribution pension plans 933 874 845
Pension plans 817 723 887
Defined benefit and contribution healthcare plans 34 34 28
Year ended 31 Dec 851 757 915
Net assets/(liabilities) recognised on the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit plans
Fair value of Present value of defined Effect of limit on plan
plan assets benefit obligations surpluses Total
$m $m $m $m
Defined benefit pension plans 30,758 (23,959) — 6,799
Defined benefit healthcare plans 80 (348) — (268)
At 31 Dec 2024 30,838 (24,307) — 6,531
Total employee benefit liabilities (within Note 27 ‘Accruals, deferred
income and other liabilities’) (1,017)
Total employee benefit assets (within Note 22 ‘Prepayments,
accrued income and other assets’) 7,548
Defined benefit pension plans 33,897 (27,011) — 6,886
Defined benefit healthcare plans 107 (403) — (296)
At 31 Dec 2023 34,004 (27,414) — 6,590
Total employee benefit liabilities (within Note 27 ‘Accruals, deferred
income and other liabilities’) (1,160)
Total employee benefit assets (within Note 22 ‘Prepayments,
accrued income and other assets’) 7,750

[PAGE 379]

HSBC Holdings
Employee compensation and benefit expense in respect of HSBC Holdings’ employees in 2024 amounted to $29m (2023: $15m). The average number
of persons employed during 2024 was 28 (2023: 29). A small number of employees are members of defined benefit pension plans. These employees
are members of the HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme. HSBC Holdings pays contributions to such plan for its own employees in accordance with the
schedules of contributions determined by the trustees of the plan and recognises these contributions as an expense as they fall due.
Defined benefit pension plans
Net asset/(liability) under defined benefit pension plans
Present value of
Fair value of plan defined benefit Effect of the asset Net defined benefit
assets obligations ceiling asset/(liability)
Principal1 Other Principal1 Other Principal1 Other Principal1 Other
plan plans plan plans plan plans plan plans
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
At 1 Jan 2024 26,590 7,307 (19,782) (7,229) — — 6,808 78
Service cost — (1) (35) (144) — — (35) (145)
– current service cost — — (9) (140) — — (9) (140)
– past service cost and gains/(losses) from settlements — (1) (26) (4) — — (26) (5)
Net interest income/(cost) on the net defined benefit asset/
(liability) 1,213 277 (896) (265) — — 317 12
Remeasurement effects recognised in other
comprehensive income (2,665) (6) 2,156 186 — — (509) 180
– return on plan assets (excluding interest income) (2,665) (6) — — — — (2,665) (6)
– actuarial gains/(losses) financial assumptions — — 1,771 204 — — 1,771 204
– actuarial gains/(losses) demographic assumptions — — 161 (5) — — 161 (5)
– actuarial gains/(losses) experience adjustments — — 224 (13) — — 224 (13)
– other changes — — — — — — — —
Exchange differences (387) (145) 281 191 — — (106) 46
Benefits paid (1,082) (496) 1,082 561 — — — 65
Other movements2 (17) 170 (29) (36) — — (46) 134
At 31 Dec 2024 23,652 7,106 (17,223) (6,736) — — 6,429 370
At 1 Jan 2023 25,121 7,050 (18,787) (6,906) — — 6,334 144
Service cost — — (10) (150) — — (10) (150)
– current service cost — — (14) (135) — — (14) (135)
– past service cost and losses from settlements — — 4 (15) — — 4 (15)
Net interest income/(cost) on the net defined benefit asset/
(liability) 1,247 298 (925) (286) — — 322 12
Remeasurement effects recognised in other
comprehensive income (225) 110 7 (300) — — (218) (190)
– return on plan assets (excluding interest income) (225) 110 — — — — (225) 110
– actuarial gains/(losses) financial assumptions — — (123) (327) — — (123) (327)
– actuarial gains/(losses) demographic assumptions — — 357 17 — — 357 17
– actuarial gains/(losses) experience adjustments — — (227) 10 — — (227) 10
– other changes — — — — — — — —
Exchange differences 1,472 228 (1,098) (190) — — 374 38
Benefits paid (1,063) (548) 1,063 629 — — — 81
Other movements2 38 169 (32) (26) — — 6 143
At 31 Dec 2023 26,590 7,307 (19,782) (7,229) — — 6,808 78
1 For further details of the principal plan, see page 376.
2 Other movements include contributions by HSBC, contributions by employees, administrative costs and taxes paid by plan.
HSBC expects to make $97m of contributions to defined benefit pension plans during 2025, consisting of $nil for the principal plan and $97m
for other plans. Benefits expected to be paid from the plans to retirees over each of the next five years, and in aggregate for the five years
thereafter, are as follows:
Benefits expected to be paid from plans
2025 2026 2027 2028 2029 2030-2034
$m $m $m $m $m $m
The principal plan1,2 1,094 1,129 1,165 1,203 1,242 6,837
Other plans1 437 423 438 432 428 2,223
1 The duration of the defined benefit obligation is 11.8 years for the principal plan under the disclosure assumptions adopted (2023: 12.9 years) and 9.8 years for
all other plans combined (2023: 10.3 years).
2 For further details of the principal plan, see page 376.
Financial
statements

[PAGE 380]

Notes on the financial statements
Fair value of plan assets by asset classes
31 Dec 2024 31 Dec 2023
Quoted No quoted Quoted No quoted
market price market price market price market price
in active in active Thereof in active in active Thereof
Value market market HSBC1 Value market market HSBC1
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
The principal plan2
Fair value of plan assets 23,652 13,903 9,749 421 26,590 15,006 11,584 547
– equities3 65 — 65 — 83 — 83 —
– bonds fixed income 5,864 5,372 492 — 5,262 4,739 523 —
– bonds index-linked 8,253 8,253 — — 10,300 10,300 — —
– derivatives 295 — 295 421 1,061 — 1,061 547
– property 833 — 833 — 830 — 830 —
– pooled investment vehicles 8,064 — 8,064 — 9,087 — 9,087 —
– other 278 278 — — (33) (33) — —
Other plans
Fair value of plan assets 7,106 6,407 699 19 7,307 5,361 1,946 39
– equities 587 587 — 4 556 556 — 3
– bonds fixed income 3,671 3,671 — 4 3,624 3,623 1 5
– bonds index-linked 33 33 — — 90 90 — —
– bonds other 473 473 — — 447 415 32 —
– derivatives 2 (3) 5 — 2 (1) 3 —
– property 103 98 5 — 112 108 4 —
– other 2,237 1,548 689 11 2,476 570 1,906 31
1 The fair value of plan assets includes derivatives entered into with HSBC Bank plc as detailed in Note 36.
2 For further details of the principal plan, see page 376.
3 Includes $65m (2023: $83m) in relation to private equities.
Post-employment defined benefit plans’ principal actuarial financial assumptions
HSBC determines the discount rates to be applied to its obligations in consultation with the plans’ local actuaries, on the basis of current
average yields of high-quality (AA-rated or equivalent) debt instruments with maturities consistent with those of the defined benefit obligations.
Key actuarial assumptions for the principal plan1
Discount rate Inflation rate (RPI) Inflation rate (CPI) Rate of increase for pensions Rate of pay increase
% % % % %
UK
At 31 Dec 2024 5.54 3.33 2.88 3.22 3.63
At 31 Dec 2023 4.65 3.23 2.67 3.14 3.42
1 For further details of the principal plan, see page 376.
Mortality tables and average life expectancy at age 60 for the principal plan1
Life expectancy at age 60 for Life expectancy at age 60 for
Mortality a male member currently: a female member currently:
table Aged 60 Aged 40 Aged 60 Aged 40
UK
At 31 Dec 2024 SAPS S32 26.1 27.7 28.3 29.9
At 31 Dec 2023 SAPS S33 26.2 27.7 28.3 29.8
1 For further details of the principal plan, see page 376.
2 Self-administered pension scheme (‘SAPS’) S3 table, with different tables and multipliers adopted based on gender, pension amount and member status,
reflecting the Scheme’s actual mortality experience. Improvements are projected in accordance with the Continuous Mortality Investigation's CMI 2023 core
projection model with an initial addition to improvement of 0.25% per annum, and a long-term rate of improvement of 1.25% per annum and with a 0%
weighting to 2020 and 2021 mortality experience and a 15% weighting to 2022 and 2023, reflecting long-term view on mortality improvements post-pandemic.
3 Self-administered pension scheme (‘SAPS’) S3 table, with different tables and multipliers adopted based on gender, pension amount and member status,
reflecting the Scheme’s actual mortality experience. Improvements are projected in accordance with the Continuous Mortality Investigation’s CMI 2022 core
projection model with an initial addition to improvement of 0.25% per annum, a long-term rate of improvement of 1.25% per annum, with a 0% weighting to
2020 and 2021, mortality experience and a 25% weighting to 2022, reflecting updated long-term view on mortality improvements post-pandemic.
The effect of changes in key assumptions on the principal plan1
Impact on HSBC UK section of the
HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme obligation
Financial impact of increase Financial impact of decrease
2024 2023 2024 2023
$m $m $m $m
Discount rate – increase/decrease of 0.25% (473) (599) 496 631
Inflation rate (RPI and CPI) – increase/decrease of 0.25% 389 500 (391) (497)
Pension payments and deferred pensions – increase/decrease of 0.25% 487 622 (478) (590)
Pay – increase/decrease of 0.25% 6 8 (6) (6)
Change in mortality – increase/decrease of 1 year 483 613 (464) (613)
1 For further details of the principal plan, see page 376.

[PAGE 381]

The above sensitivity analyses are based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. In practice, this is unlikely
to occur, and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated. When calculating the sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to
significant actuarial assumptions the same method (present value of the defined benefit obligation calculated with the projected unit credit
method at the end of the reporting period) has been applied as when calculating the defined benefit asset recognised in the balance sheet. The
methods and types of assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis did not change compared with the prior period.
Directors’ emoluments
Details of Directors’ emoluments, pensions and their interests are disclosed in the Directors’ remuneration report on page 279.
6 Auditor’s remuneration
2024 2023 2022
$m $m $m
Audit fees payable to PwC1 102.8 109.8 97.6
Other audit fees payable 1.6 2.2 1.6
Year ended 31 Dec 104.4 112.0 99.2
Fees payable by HSBC to PwC
2024 2023 2022
$m $m $m
Fees for HSBC Holdings’ statutory audit2 22.0 24.1 21.9
Fees for other services provided to HSBC 124.6 131.8 126.2
– audit of HSBC’s subsidiaries 80.8 85.7 75.7
– audit-related assurance services3 25.0 26.0 26.4
– other assurance services4,5 18.8 20.1 24.1
Year ended 31 Dec 146.6 155.9 148.1
1 Audit fees payable to PwC in 2024 included adjustments made to the prior year audit fee after finalisation of the 2023 financial statements.
2 Fees payable to PwC for the statutory audit of the consolidated financial statements of HSBC and the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings. They
include amounts payable for services relating to the consolidation returns of HSBC Holdings’ subsidiaries, which are clearly identifiable as being in support of the
Group audit opinion.
3 Including services for assurance and other services that relate to statutory and regulatory filings, including interim reviews.
4 Including permitted services relating to attestation reports on internal controls of a service organisation primarily prepared for and used by third-party end users,
including comfort letters.
5 Includes reviews of PRA regulatory reporting returns.
No fees were payable by HSBC to PwC as principal auditor for the following types of services: internal audit services and services related to
litigation, recruitment and remuneration.
Fees payable by HSBC’s associated pension schemes to PwC
2024 2023 2022
$000 $000 $000
Audit of HSBC’s associated pension schemes 320 297 480
Year ended 31 Dec 320 297 480
No fees were payable by HSBC’s associated pension schemes to PwC as principal auditor for the following types of services: internal audit
services, other assurance services, services related to corporate finance transactions, valuation and actuarial services, litigation, recruitment
and remuneration, and information technology.
In addition to the above, the estimated fees paid to PwC by third parties associated with HSBC amounted to $9.9m (2023: $12.3m;
2022: $13.1m). In these cases, HSBC was connected with the contracting party and may therefore have been involved in appointing PwC.
These fees arose from services such as auditing mutual funds managed by HSBC and reviewing the financial position of corporate concerns
that borrow from HSBC.
Fees payable for non-audit services for HSBC Holdings are not disclosed separately because such fees are disclosed on a consolidated basis for
the Group.
Financial
statements

[PAGE 382]

Notes on the financial statements
7 Tax
Tax expense
2024 2023 2022
$m $m $m
Current tax1 6,115 5,718 2,984
– for this year 5,863 5,737 3,264
– adjustments in respect of prior years 31 (19) (280)
– Pillar 2 and qualifying domestic top-up taxes 221 — —
Deferred tax 1,195 71 (2,175)
– origination and reversal of temporary differences 1,288 19 (2,278)
– effect of changes in tax rates (2) 17 (293)
– adjustments in respect of prior years (91) 35 396
Year ended 31 Dec2 7,310 5,789 809
1 Current tax included Hong Kong profits tax of $1,615m (2023: $1,328m; 2022: $604m). The Hong Kong tax rate applying to the profits of subsidiaries assessable
in Hong Kong was 16.5% (2023: 16.5%; 2022: 16.5%).
2 In addition to amounts recorded in the income statement, a tax credit of $12m (2023: credit of $41m) was recorded directly to equity.
Tax reconciliation
The tax charged to the income statement differs from the tax charge that would apply if all profits had been taxed at the UK corporation tax rate
as follows:
2024 2023 2022
$m % $m % $m %
Profit before tax 32,309 30,348 17,058
Tax expense
Taxation at UK corporation tax rate of 25.0% (2023: 23.5%, 2022: 19.0%) 8,077 25.0 7,132 23.5 3,241 19.0
Impact of differently taxed overseas profits in overseas locations (1,351) (4.2) (612) (2.0) 459 2.7
UK banking surcharge 215 0.7 350 1.2 283 1.7
Items increasing tax charge in 2024:
– tax impact of sale of HSBC Argentina 1,536 4.8 — — — —
– local taxes and overseas withholding taxes 584 1.8 419 1.4 346 2.0
– other permanent disallowables 344 1.0 227 0.7 363 2.1
– impacts of hyperinflation 327 1.0 348 1.1 171 1.0
– movements in unrecognised deferred tax 259 0.7 (22) (0.1) (2,503) (14.7)
– Global Minimum Tax top-up charge 221 0.7 — — — —
– bank levy 73 0.2 112 0.4 59 0.3
– movements in provisions for uncertain tax positions 38 0.1 (472) (1.6) 27 0.2
– impact of changes in tax rates 6 — 17 0.1 (293) (1.7)
– impairment of interest in associate — — 705 2.3 — —
Items reducing tax charge in 2024:
– non-taxable gain on disposal of HSBC Canada (1,174) (3.6) — — — —
– non-taxable income and gains (1,079) (3.3) (1,189) (3.9) (825) (4.8)
– effect of profits in associates and joint ventures (456) (1.4) (571) (1.9) (504) (3.1)
– deductions for AT1 coupon payments (249) (0.8) (229) (0.7) (246) (1.4)
– adjustments in respect of prior period (46) (0.1) 16 0.1 116 0.7
– tax impact of sale of French retail banking business (15) — — — 115 0.7
– accounting gain on acquisition of SVB UK — — (442) (1.5) — —
Year ended 31 Dec 7,310 22.6 5,789 19.1 809 4.7
The Group’s profits are taxed at different rates depending on the country or territory in which the profits arise. The key applicable tax rates for
2024 include Hong Kong (16.5%), the US (21%) and the UK (25%). If the Group’s profits were taxed at the statutory rates of the countries in
which the profits arose, then the tax rate for the year would have been 21.4% (2023: 22.6%).
The effective tax rate for the year of 22.6% was higher than in the previous year (2023: 19.1%). The effective tax rate for the year was reduced
by 3.6% by the non-taxable gain arising on the disposal of HSBC Canada, increased by 4.8% by the non-deductible loss arising on the disposal
of HSBC Argentina, increased by 70.0% by movements in unrecognised deferred tax, primarily relating to French tax losses, and increased by
70.0% by the Group’s Pillar 2 Global Minimum Tax charge. The effective tax rate for 2023 was increased by 2.3% by the non-taxable
impairment of the Group’s investment in BoCom, reduced by 1.6% by the release of provisions for uncertain tax positions and reduced by
1.5% by the non-taxable accounting gain on the acquisition of SVB UK.
In July 2023, the UK enacted legislation to introduce the ‘Pillar Two’ global minimum tax model rules of the OECD’s Inclusive Framework on
Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (’BEPS’) and a UK qualified domestic minimum top-up tax, with effect from 1 January 2024. Under the Pillar
Two rules, a top-up tax liability arises where the Group’s effective tax rate in a jurisdiction is below 15%. The Group has recorded a Pillar Two
global minimum tax charge of $221m for the period, primarily related to the non-taxation of dividends and income on government bonds in
Hong Kong (which have the effect of reducing the effective tax rate from the statutory rate of 16.5% to below 15%) and low or nil statutory tax
rates in jurisdictions such as Bermuda and the Channel Islands. For the current period, this tax expense will be substantially payable in the UK
by HSBC Holdings.
Many jurisdictions have introduced or announced the introduction of domestic minimum tax rules that are closely aligned to the OECD’s Pillar
Two model rules, as well as new or amended corporate income tax rules, with effect from 2024 or 2025. As and when such taxes are
introduced, they will have the effect of increasing local tax liabilities, eliminating or reducing the top-up tax liability payable in the UK by HSBC

[PAGE 383]

Holdings in respect of those jurisdictions. Hong Kong, Bermuda and the Channel Islands have introduced such new tax rules with effect from
1 January 2025.
Accounting for taxes involves some estimation because tax law is uncertain and its application requires a degree of judgement, which
authorities may dispute. Liabilities are recognised based on best estimates of the probable outcome, taking into account external advice where
appropriate. Exposures relating to legacy tax cases were reassessed during 2024, resulting in a charge of $38m to the income statement. We
do not expect significant liabilities to arise in excess of the amounts provided. HSBC only recognises current and deferred tax assets where
recovery is probable.
Movement of deferred tax assets and liabilities
Loan Unused tax Financial
impairment losses and assets at Cash flow Retirement
provisions tax credits FVOCI hedges obligations Other Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Assets 1,158 4,544 876 419 — 2,933 9,930
Liabilities — — — — (1,814) (1,600) (3,414)
At 1 Jan 2024 1,158 4,544 876 419 (1,814) 1,333 6,516
Income statement (74) (640) 100 — (85) (431) (1,130)
Other comprehensive income — — (49) 84 114 189 338
Foreign exchange and other adjustments (14) (40) (311) (61) 18 208 (200)
At 31 Dec 2024 1,070 3,864 616 442 (1,767) 1,299 5,524
Assets1 1,070 3,864 616 442 — 2,906 8,898
Liabilities1 — — — — (1,767) (1,607) (3,374)
Assets 1,062 4,397 850 1,271 — 3,048 10,628
Liabilities — — — — (1,673) (1,567) (3,240)
At 1 Jan 2023 1,062 4,397 850 1,271 (1,673) 1,481 7,388
Income statement (39) 102 541 1 (114) (562) (71)
Other comprehensive income — — (598) (974) 99 399 (1,074)
Foreign exchange and other adjustments 135 45 83 121 (126) 15 273
At 31 Dec 2023 1,158 4,544 876 419 (1,814) 1,333 6,516
Assets1 1,158 4,544 876 419 — 2,933 9,930
Liabilities1 — — — — (1,814) (1,600) (3,414)
1 After netting off balances within countries, the balances as disclosed in the accounts are as follows: deferred tax assets of $6,841m (2023: $7,754m) and
deferred tax liabilities of $1,317m (2023: $1,238m).
In applying judgement in recognising deferred tax assets, management has assessed all relevant information, including future business profit
projections and the track record of meeting forecasts. Management’s assessment of the likely availability of future taxable profits against which
to recover deferred tax assets is based on the most recent financial forecasts approved by management, which cover a five-year period and are
extrapolated where necessary, and takes into consideration the reversal of existing taxable temporary differences and past business
performance. When forecasts are extrapolated beyond five years, a number of different scenarios are considered, reflecting different
downward risk adjustments, in order to assess the sensitivity of our recognition and measurement conclusions in the context of such longer-
term forecasts.
The Group’s net deferred tax asset of $5.5bn (2023: $6.5bn) included $2.6bn (2023: $3.3bn) of deferred tax assets relating to the UK, $3.0bn
(2023: $3.1bn) of deferred tax assets relating to the US and a net deferred asset of $0.5bn (2023: $0.9bn) in France.
The UK deferred tax asset of $2.6bn excluded a $1.8bn deferred tax liability arising on the UK pension scheme surplus, the reversal of which is
not taken into account when estimating future taxable profit due to the level of uncertainty as to the timing and manner of its reversal. The UK
deferred tax assets are supported by forecasts of taxable profit, also taking into consideration the history of profitability in the relevant
businesses. The majority of the deferred tax asset relates to tax attributes which do not expire and are forecast to be recovered within 3 years
and as such are less sensitive to changes in long-term profit forecasts.
The net US deferred tax asset of $3.0bn included $1.2bn related to US tax losses, of which $0.9bn expire in 10 to 15 years. Management
expects the US deferred tax asset to be substantially recovered within 13 years, with the majority recovered in the first 5 years.
The net deferred tax asset in France of $0.5bn included $0.5bn related to tax losses, which are expected to be substantially recovered within
12 years. Unused tax losses with a tax value of $0.2bn have not been recognised due to the absence of convincing evidence regarding the
availability of sufficient future taxable profits against which to recover them.
Unrecognised deferred tax
The amount of gross temporary differences, unused tax losses and tax credits for which no deferred tax asset is recognised in the balance
sheet was $11.0bn (2023: $10.4bn). This amount included unused US state tax losses of $3.8bn (2023: $4.0bn) which are forecast to expire
before they are recovered, unused French tax losses of $0.7bn (2023: nil) for which there is insufficient evidence of future taxable profits to
support recognition, and unused UK tax losses of $3.5bn (2023: $4.5bn), which arose prior to 1 April 2017 and can only be recovered against
future taxable profits of HSBC Holdings. No deferred tax was recognised on these losses due to the absence of convincing evidence regarding
the availability of sufficient future taxable profits against which to recover them. Deferred tax asset recognition is reassessed at each balance
sheet date based on the available evidence. Of the total amounts on which deferred tax was not recognised, $6.0bn (2023: $5.1bn) had no
expiry date, $1.0bn (2023: $0.5bn) was scheduled to expire within 10 years and the remaining balance is expected to expire after 10 years.
Deferred tax is not recognised in respect of the Group’s investments in subsidiaries and branches where HSBC is able to control the timing of
remittance or other realisation and where remittance or realisation is not probable in the foreseeable future. The aggregate temporary
differences relating to unrecognised deferred tax liabilities arising on investments in subsidiaries and branches was $15.2bn (2023: $14.4bn)
and the corresponding unrecognised deferred tax liability was $0.7bn (2023: $0.7bn).
Financial
statements

[PAGE 384]

Notes on the financial statements
8 Dividends
Dividends to shareholders of the parent company
2024 2023 2022
Per Per Per
share Total share Total share Total
$ $m $ $m $ $m
Dividends paid on ordinary shares
In respect of previous year:
– second interim dividend — — 0.23 4,589 0.18 3,576
– fourth interim dividend 0.31 5,872 — — — —
In respect of current year:
– first interim dividend 0.10 1,877 0.10 2,001 0.09 1,754
– special dividend 0.21 3,942 — — — —
– second interim dividend 0.10 1,852 0.10 1,956 — —
– third interim dividend 0.10 1,805 0.10 1,946 — —
Total 0.82 15,348 0.53 10,492 0.27 5,330
Total coupons on capital securities classified as equity 1,062 1,101 1,214
Dividends to shareholders 16,410 11,593 6,544
Total coupons on capital securities classified as equity
2024 2023 2022
Total Total Total
First call date Per security $m $m $m
Perpetual subordinated contingent convertible securities1
$2,250m issued at 6.375%2 Sep 2024 $63.750 122 143 143
$2,450m issued at 6.375% Mar 2025 $63.750 156 156 156
$3,000m issued at 6.000% May 2027 $60.000 180 180 180
$2,350m issued at 6.250%3 Mar 2023 $62.500 — 52 147
$1,800m issued at 6.500% Mar 2028 $65.000 117 117 117
$1,500m issued at 4.600% Dec 2030 $46.000 69 69 69
$1,000m issued at 4.000% Mar 2026 $40.000 40 40 40
$1,000m issued at 4.700% Mar 2031 $47.000 47 47 47
$2,000m issued at 8.000%4 Mar 2028 $80.000 160 80 —
$1,350m issued at 6.875%5 Sep 2029 $68.750 — — —
$1,150m issued at 6.950%6 Mar 2034 $69.500 — — —
€1,500m issued at 5.250%7 Sep 2022 €52.500 — — 76
€1,000m issued at 6.000%8 Sep 2023 €60.000 — 56 63
€1,250m issued at 4.750% Jul 2029 €47.500 65 64 65
£1,000m issued at 5.875% Sep 2026 £58.750 77 72 70
SGD1,000m issued at 4.700%9 Jun 2022 SGD47.000 — — 14
SGD750m issued at 5.000%10 Sep 2023 SGD50.000 — 25 27
SGD1,500m issued at 5.250%11 Jun 2029 SGD52.500 29 — —
Total 1,062 1,101 1,214
1 Discretionary coupons are paid semi-annually, based on the denominations of each security.
2 This security was called by HSBC Holdings on 23 July 2024 and was redeemed and cancelled on 17 September 2024.
3 This security was called by HSBC Holdings on 30 January 2023 and was redeemed and cancelled on 23 March 2023.
4 This security was issued by HSBC Holdings on 7 March 2023. The first call period commences six calendar months prior to the reset date of 7 September 2028.
5 This security was issued by HSBC Holdings on 11 September 2024. The first call period commences six calendar months prior to the reset date of 11 March
2030.
6 This security was issued by HSBC Holdings on 11 September 2024. The first call period commences six calendar months prior to the reset date of
11 September 2034.
7 This security was called by HSBC Holdings on 9 August 2022 and was redeemed and cancelled on 16 September 2022.
8 This security was called by HSBC Holdings on 3 August 2023 and was redeemed and cancelled on 29 September 2023.
9 This security was called by HSBC Holdings on 4 May 2022 and was redeemed and cancelled on 8 June 2022.
10 This security was called by HSBC Holdings on 3 August 2023 and was redeemed and cancelled on 25 September 2023.
11 This security was issued by HSBC Holdings on 14 June 2024. The first call period commences six calendar months prior to the reset date of 14 December 2029.
On 19 February 2025, the Directors approved a fourth interim dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2024 of $0.36 per
ordinary share (the ‘dividend’), an expected distribution of approximately $6.4bn. The dividend will be payable on 25 April 2025 to holders of
record on the Principal Register in the UK, the Hong Kong Overseas Branch Register or the Bermuda Overseas Branch Register on
7 March 2025. No liability was recorded in the financial statements in respect of the fourth interim dividend for 2024.
On 6 January 2025, HSBC paid a coupon on its €1,250m subordinated capital securities, representing a total distribution of €30m ($31m). No
liability was recorded in the balance sheet at 31 December 2024 in respect of this coupon payment.

[PAGE 385]

9 Earnings per share
Basic earnings per ordinary share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent company by the
weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding, after deducting own shares held. Diluted earnings per ordinary share is calculated by
dividing the basic earnings, which require no adjustment for the effects of dilutive potential ordinary shares, by the weighted average number
of ordinary shares outstanding, excluding own shares held, plus the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on
conversion of dilutive potential ordinary shares.
Basic and diluted earnings per share
2024 2023 2022
Number Per Number Per Number Per
Profit of shares share Profit of shares share Profit of shares share
$m (millions) $ $m (millions) $ $m (millions) $
Basic1 22,917 18,357 1.25 22,432 19,478 1.15 14,346 19,849 0.72
Effect of dilutive potential
ordinary shares 128 122 137
Diluted1 22,917 18,485 1.24 22,432 19,600 1.14 14,346 19,986 0.72
1 Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding (basic) or assuming dilution (diluted) after deducting own shares held.
The number of anti-dilutive employee share options excluded from the weighted average number of dilutive potential ordinary shares was Nil
(2023: 23 million; 2022: 9.4 million).
10 Segmental analysis
The Group CEO, supported by the rest of the Group Executive Committee (‘GEC’), was considered the Chief Operating Decision Maker
(‘CODM’) during the reporting period for the purposes of identifying the Group’s reportable segments. As the reorganisation only took effect
from 1 January 2025, it has no effect on the 2024 segmental reporting. Global business results were assessed by the CODM on the basis of
constant currency performance that removes the effects of currency translation from reported results. Therefore, we disclose these results on
a constant currency basis as required by IFRS Accounting Standards. The 2023 and 2022 income statements are converted at the average rates
of exchange for 2024, and the balance sheets at 31 December 2023 and 31 December 2022 at the prevailing rates of exchange on
31 December 2024.
Our operations are closely integrated and, accordingly, the presentation of data includes internal allocations of certain items of income and
expense. These allocations include the costs of certain support services and global functions to the extent that they can be meaningfully
attributed to global businesses. While such allocations have been made on a systematic and consistent basis, they involve a certain degree of
subjectivity. Costs that are not allocated to global businesses are included in Corporate Centre.
Where relevant, income and expense amounts presented include the results of inter-segment funding along with inter-company and inter-
business line transactions. All such transactions are undertaken on arm’s length terms. Measurement of segmental assets, liabilities, income
and expenses is in accordance with the Group’s accounting policies. Shared costs are included in segments on the basis of actual recharges.
The intra-group elimination items for the global businesses are presented in Corporate Centre.
Our global businesses
We provide a comprehensive range of banking and related financial services to our customers in our three global businesses. The products and
services offered to customers are organised by these global businesses.
– Wealth and Personal Banking (‘WPB’) provides a full range of retail banking and wealth products to our customers from personal banking to
ultra high net worth individuals. Typically, customer offerings include retail banking products, such as current and savings accounts,
mortgages and personal loans, credit cards, debit cards and local and international payment services. We also provide wealth management
services, including insurance and investment products, global asset management services, investment management and private wealth
solutions for customers with more sophisticated and international requirements.
– Commercial Banking (‘CMB’) offers a broad range of products and services to serve the needs of our commercial customers, including small
and medium-sized enterprises, mid-market enterprises and corporates. These include credit and lending, international trade and receivables
finance, treasury management and liquidity solutions (payments and cash management and commercial cards), commercial insurance and
investments. CMB also offers customers access to products and services offered by other global businesses, such as Global Banking and
Markets, which include foreign exchange products, raising capital on debt and equity markets and advisory services.
– Global Banking and Markets (‘GBM’) provides tailored financial solutions to major government, corporate and institutional clients and private
investors worldwide. The client-focused business lines deliver a full range of banking capabilities, including financing, advisory and
transaction services, a markets business that provides services in credit, rates, foreign exchange, equities, money markets and securities
services, and principal investment activities.
Financial
statements

[PAGE 386]

Notes on the financial statements
HSBC constant currency profit before tax and balance sheet data
2024
Wealth and Global
Personal Commercial Banking and Corporate
Banking Banking Markets Centre Total
$m $m $m $m $m
Net operating income/(expense) before change in expected credit losses
and other credit impairment charges1 28,674 21,580 17,529 (1,929) 65,854
– external 20,460 21,565 30,698 (6,869) 65,854
– inter-segment 8,214 15 (13,169) 4,940 —
– of which: net interest income/(expense)2 20,352 17,261 7,488 (12,368) 32,733
Change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges (1,335) (1,815) (235) (29) (3,414)
Net operating income/(expense) 27,339 19,765 17,294 (1,958) 62,440
Total operating expenses (15,204) (7,906) (10,231) 298 (33,043)
Operating profit/(loss) 12,135 11,859 7,063 (1,660) 29,397
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures less impairment 47 1 — 2,864 2,912
Constant currency profit before tax 12,182 11,860 7,063 1,204 32,309
% % % % %
Share of HSBC’s constant currency profit before tax 37.7 36.7 21.9 3.7 100.0
Constant currency cost efficiency ratio 53.0 36.6 58.4 15.4 50.2
Constant currency balance sheet data $m $m $m $m $m
Loans and advances to customers (net) 447,085 306,926 169,516 7,131 930,658
Interests in associates and joint ventures 558 25 108 28,218 28,909
Total external assets 890,080 603,841 1,388,845 134,282 3,017,048
Customer accounts 823,267 490,475 340,898 315 1,654,955
2023
Net operating income/(expense) before change in expected credit losses and
other credit impairment charges1 26,848 22,396 15,771 (103) 64,912
– external 18,669 23,686 27,618 (5,061) 64,912
– inter-segment 8,179 (1,290) (11,847) 4,958 —
– of which: net interest income/(expense)2 19,902 16,289 6,860 (8,899) 34,152
Change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges (935) (2,006) (317) (1) (3,259)
Net operating income/(expense) 25,913 20,390 15,454 (104) 61,653
Total operating expenses (14,352) (7,234) (9,872) (36) (31,494)
Operating profit/(loss) 11,561 13,156 5,582 (140) 30,159
Share of profit/(loss) in associates and joint ventures3 64 (1) — (319) (256)
Constant currency profit/(loss) before tax 11,625 13,155 5,582 (459) 29,903
% % % % %
Share of HSBC’s constant currency profit before tax 38.9 44.0 18.7 (1.6) 100.0
Constant currency cost efficiency ratio 53.5 32.3 62.6 (35.0) 48.5
Constant currency balance sheet data $m $m $m $m $m
Loans and advances to customers (net) 444,856 301,103 170,868 262 917,089
Interests in associates and joint ventures 539 23 107 26,226 26,895
Total external assets 915,062 613,124 1,298,065 146,296 2,972,547
Customer accounts 792,710 465,095 321,226 582 1,579,613

[PAGE 387]

HSBC constant currency profit before tax and balance sheet data (continued)
2022
Wealth and Global
Personal Commercial Banking and Corporate
Banking Banking Markets Centre Total
$m $m $m $m $m
Net operating income/(expense) before change in expected credit losses and
other credit impairment charges1 20,772 16,207 14,542 (1,934) 49,587
– external 18,176 16,834 18,704 (4,127) 49,587
– inter-segment 2,596 (627) (4,162) 2,193 —
– of which: net interest income/(expense)2 15,887 11,584 4,602 (2,633) 29,440
Change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges (1,160) (1,868) (578) (9) (3,615)
Net operating income/(expense) 19,612 14,339 13,964 (1,943) 45,972
Total operating expenses (14,141) (6,810) (9,403) (1,875) (32,229)
Operating profit/(loss) 5,471 7,529 4,561 (3,818) 13,743
Share of profit/(loss) in associates and joint ventures 29 1 (2) 2,531 2,559
Constant currency profit/(loss) before tax 5,500 7,530 4,559 (1,287) 16,302
% % % % %
Share of HSBC’s constant currency profit before tax 33.7 46.2 28.0 (7.9) 100.0
Constant currency cost efficiency ratio 68.1 42.0 64.7 (96.9) 65.0
Constant currency balance sheet data $m $m $m $m $m
Loans and advances to customers (net) 425,072 309,224 186,653 350 921,299
Interests in associates and joint ventures 503 27 90 27,676 28,296
Total external assets 873,688 602,624 1,305,319 161,872 2,943,503
Customer accounts 781,881 462,806 323,420 443 1,568,550
1 Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges, also referred to as revenue.
2 Net interest expense recognised in Corporate Centre includes $11.4bn (2023: $8.7bn; 2022: $2.5bn) of interest expense in relation to the internal cost to fund
trading and fair value net assets; and the funding cost of foreign exchange swaps in our Markets Treasury function.
3 Includes an impairment loss of $3.0bn recognised in respect of the Group’s investment in BoCom in 2023.
Reported external net operating income is attributed to countries and territories on the basis of the location of the branch responsible for
reporting the results or advancing the funds:
2024 2023 2022
$m $m $m
Reported external net operating income/(expense) by country/territory1 65,854 66,058 50,620
– UK2 12,307 11,027 11,710
– Hong Kong 20,811 20,185 15,454
– US 4,233 3,816 3,893
– France 3,804 4,208 (177)
– other countries/territories 24,699 26,822 19,740
1 Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges, also referred to as revenue.
2 UK includes HSBC UK Bank plc (ring-fenced bank), HSBC Bank plc (non-ring-fenced bank), the ultimate holding company, HSBC Holdings plc, and the separately
incorporated group of service companies (‘ServCo Group’).
Constant currency results reconciliation
2024 2023 2022
Reported and
constant Constant Currency Constant Currency
currency currency translation Reported currency translation Reported
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Revenue1 65,854 64,912 (1,146) 66,058 49,587 (1,033) 50,620
ECL (3,414) (3,259) 188 (3,447) (3,615) (31) (3,584)
Operating expenses (33,043) (31,494) 576 (32,070) (32,229) 472 (32,701)
Share of profit/(loss) in associates and
joint ventures less impairment2 2,912 (256) (63) (193) 2,559 (164) 2,723
Profit before tax 32,309 29,903 (445) 30,348 16,302 (756) 17,058
1 Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges, also referred to as revenue.
2 Includes an impairment loss of $3.0bn recognised in respect of the Group’s investment in BoCom in 2023.
Constant currency balance sheet reconciliation
2024 2023 2022
Reported and
constant Constant Currency Constant Currency
currency currency translation Reported currency translation Reported
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Loans and advances to customers (net) 930,658 917,089 21,446 938,535 921,299 2,262 923,561
Interests in associates and joint ventures 28,909 26,895 449 27,344 28,296 958 29,254
Total external assets 3,017,048 2,972,547 66,130 3,038,677 2,943,503 5,783 2,949,286
Customer accounts 1,654,955 1,579,613 32,034 1,611,647 1,568,550 1,753 1,570,303
Financial
statements

[PAGE 388]

Notes on the financial statements
Notable items
2024 2023 2022
$m $m $m
Year ended 31 Dec
Notable items
Revenue
Disposals, acquisitions and related costs1,2 (1,343) 1,298 (2,737)
Fair value movements on financial instruments3 — 14 (618)
Restructuring and other related costs — — (247)
Disposal losses on Markets Treasury repositioning — (977) —
Early redemption of legacy securities (237) — —
Operating expenses
Disposals, acquisitions and related costs (199) (321) (18)
Restructuring and other related costs4 (34) 136 (2,882)
Impairment of interests in associates5 — (3,000) —
1 Amounts in 2024 include a $1.0bn loss on disposal and a $5.2bn loss on the recycling in foreign currency translation reserve losses and other reserves arising on
sale of our business in Argentina. This is partly offset by a $4.8bn gain on disposal of our banking business in Canada, inclusive of a $0.3bn gain on the foreign
exchange hedging of the sales proceeds, the recycling of $0.6bn in foreign currency translation reserve losses and $0.4bn of other reserves losses.
2 Amounts in 2023 include the gain of $1.6bn recognised in respect of the acquisition of SVB UK, as well as the impact of the sale of our retail banking operations
in France.
3 Fair value movements on non-qualifying hedges in HSBC Holdings.
4 Amounts in 2024 relate to restructuring provisions recognised in 2024 and reversals of restructuring provisions recognised during 2022. Amounts in 2023 relate
to reversals of restructuring provisions recognised during 2022.
5 Relates to an impairment loss of $3.0bn recognised in respect of the Group’s investment in BoCom in 2023.
11 Trading assets
2024 2023
$m $m
Treasury and other eligible bills 32,022 24,433
Debt securities 97,275 106,108
Equity securities 155,194 123,663
Trading securities 284,491 254,204
Loans and advances to banks1 6,123 9,761
Loans and advances to customers1 24,228 25,194
Year ended 31 Dec 314,842 289,159
1 Loans and advances to banks and customers include reverse repos, stock borrowing and other accounts.
12 Fair values of financial instruments carried at fair value
Control framework
Fair values are subject to a control framework designed to ensure that they are either determined or validated by a function independent of the
risk taker.
Where fair values are determined by reference to externally quoted prices or observable pricing inputs to models, independent price
determination or validation is used. For inactive markets, HSBC sources alternative market information, with greater weight given to
information that is considered to be more relevant and reliable. Examples of the factors considered are price observability, instrument
comparability, consistency of data sources, underlying data accuracy and timing of prices.
For fair values determined using valuation models, the control framework includes development or validation by independent support functions
of the model logic, inputs, model outputs and adjustments. Valuation models are subject to a process of due diligence before becoming
operational and are calibrated against external market data on an ongoing basis.
Changes in fair value are generally subject to a profit and loss analysis process and are disaggregated into high-level categories including
portfolio changes, market movements and other fair value adjustments.
The majority of financial instruments measured at fair value are in GBM. GBM’s fair value governance structure comprises its Finance function,
Valuation Committees and a Valuation Committee Review Group. Finance is responsible for establishing procedures governing valuation and
ensuring fair values are in compliance with accounting standards. The fair values are reviewed by the Valuation Committees, which consist of
independent support functions. These committees are overseen by the Valuation Committee Review Group, which considers all material
subjective valuations.
Financial liabilities measured at fair value
In certain circumstances, HSBC records its own debt in issue at fair value, based on quoted prices in an active market for the specific
instrument. When quoted market prices are unavailable, the own debt in issue is valued using valuation techniques, the inputs for which are
either based on quoted prices in an inactive market for the instrument or are estimated by comparison with quoted prices in an active market
for similar instruments. In both cases, the fair value includes the effect of applying the credit spread that is appropriate to HSBC’s liabilities. The
change in fair value of issued debt securities attributable to the Group’s own credit spread is computed as follows: for each security at each
reporting date, an externally verifiable price is obtained or a price is derived using credit spreads for similar securities for the same issuer. Then,
using discounted cash flow, each security is valued using an appropriate market discount curve. The difference in the valuations is attributable
to the Group’s own credit spread. This methodology is applied consistently across all securities.

[PAGE 389]

Structured notes issued and certain other hybrid instruments are reported as financial liabilities designated at fair value. The credit spread
applied to these instruments is derived from the spreads at which HSBC issues structured notes.
Gains and losses arising from changes in the credit spread of liabilities issued by HSBC, recorded in other comprehensive income, reverse over
the contractual life of the debt, provided that the debt is not repaid at a premium or a discount.
Fair value hierarchy
Fair values of financial assets and liabilities are determined according to the following hierarchy:
– Level 1 – valuation technique using quoted market price. These are financial instruments with quoted prices for identical instruments in
active markets that HSBC can access at the measurement date.
– Level 2 – valuation technique using observable inputs. These are financial instruments with quoted prices for similar instruments in active
markets or quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in inactive markets and financial instruments valued using models where all
significant inputs are observable.
– Level 3 – valuation technique with significant unobservable inputs. These are financial instruments valued using valuation techniques where
one or more significant inputs are unobservable.
Financial instruments carried at fair value and bases of valuation
2024 2023
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Recurring fair value measurements at 31 Dec
Assets
Trading assets 236,593 71,574 6,675 314,842 202,020 82,833 4,306 289,159
Financial assets designated and otherwise mandatorily
measured at fair value through profit or loss 39,331 56,694 19,744 115,769 27,030 63,825 19,788 110,643
Derivatives 1,859 264,629 2,149 268,637 931 226,714 2,069 229,714
Financial investments 258,371 78,088 2,734 339,193 215,228 76,591 2,618 294,437
Liabilities
Trading liabilities 42,038 23,160 784 65,982 53,354 19,318 478 73,150
Financial liabilities designated at fair value 2,152 127,458 9,117 138,727 1,266 129,232 10,928 141,426
Derivatives 1,088 260,518 2,842 264,448 1,918 230,285 2,569 234,772
The table below provides the fair value levelling of assets held for sale and liabilities of disposal groups that have been classified as held for sale
in accordance with IFRS 5. For further details, see Note 23.
Financial instruments carried at fair value and bases of valuation – assets and liabilities held for sale
2024 2023
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Recurring fair value measurements at 31 Dec
Assets
Trading assets — — — — 2,403 61 — 2,465
Financial assets designated and otherwise mandatorily
measured at fair value through profit or loss 2,967 9,018 2,575 14,560 — 15 49 64
Derivatives — 36 — 36 — 528 — 528
Financial investments 2,651 5,345 504 8,500 9,357 — 28 9,385
Liabilities
Trading liabilities — — — — 1,352 64 — 1,417
Financial liabilities designated at fair value — 130 — 130 — 2,370 — 2,370
Derivatives — 19 — 19 — 615 — 615
Transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair values
Assets Liabilities
Designated and otherwise Designated
Financial Trading mandatorily measured Trading at fair
investments assets at fair value Derivatives liabilities value Derivatives
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m
At 31 Dec 2024
Transfers from Level 1 to Level 2 13,511 9,246 1,540 — 191 — —
Transfers from Level 2 to Level 1 10,752 6,060 3,042 — 159 — —
At 31 Dec 2023
Transfers from Level 1 to Level 2 13,200 8,066 1,709 — 54 — —
Transfers from Level 2 to Level 1 9,975 5,758 2,477 — 309 — —
Transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy are deemed to occur at the end of each quarterly reporting period. Transfers are primarily
attributable to changes in price transparency and in the assessment of observability.
Financial
statements

[PAGE 390]

Notes on the financial statements
Fair value adjustments
Fair value adjustments take into consideration additional factors not incorporated within the primary product valuation model that would
otherwise be considered by a market participant. Adjustments are calculated using model infrastructure including those within primary valuation
systems. We classify fair value adjustments as either ‘risk-related’ or ‘model-related’. The majority of these adjustments relate to MSS.
Movements in the amount of fair value adjustments do not necessarily translate in equivalent movements of profits or losses within the
income statement, as these movements can be compensated by other related profits or loss effects. For example, as models are enhanced,
fair value adjustments may no longer be required. Similarly, fair value adjustments will decrease when the related positions are unwound, but
this may not result in profit or loss.
Fair value adjustments
2024 2023
Corporate Corporate
GBM Centre GBM Centre
$m $m $m $m
Type of adjustment
Risk-related 634 35 692 41
– bid-offer 366 2 414 —
– uncertainty 98 3 75 3
– credit valuation adjustment 126 27 164 35
– debit valuation adjustment (24) — (54) —
– funding fair value adjustment 68 3 93 3
Model-related 50 — 63 —
– model limitation 50 — 63 —
Inception profit (Day 1 P&L reserves) 92 — 86 —
At 31 Dec 776 35 841 41
The net reduction in fair value adjustments was predominantly driven by changes to exposure, and tightening of credit and liquidity market
spreads.
Bid-offer
IFRS 13 ‘Fair Value Measurement’ requires the use of the price within the bid-offer spread that is most representative of fair value. Valuation
models will typically generate mid-market values. The bid-offer adjustment reflects the extent to which bid-offer costs would be incurred if
substantially all residual net portfolio market risks were closed using available hedging instruments or by disposing of or unwinding the position.
Uncertainty
Certain model inputs may be less readily determinable from market data and/or the choice of model itself may be more subjective. In these
circumstances, an adjustment may be necessary to reflect the likelihood that market participants would adopt more conservative values for
uncertain parameters and/or model assumptions than those used in HSBC’s valuation model.
Credit and debit valuation adjustments
The credit valuation adjustment (‘CVA’) is an adjustment to the valuation of over-the-counter (‘OTC’) derivative contracts to reflect the possibility
that the counterparty may default and that HSBC may not receive the full market value of the transactions.
The debit valuation adjustment (‘DVA’) is an adjustment to the valuation of OTC derivative contracts to reflect the possibility that HSBC may
default, and that it may not pay the full market value of the transactions. The DVA considers the overlap with the funding fair value adjustment.
HSBC calculates a separate CVA and DVA for each legal entity, and for each counterparty to which the entity has exposure. With the exception
of central clearing parties, all third-party counterparties are included in the CVA and DVA calculations, and these adjustments are not netted
across Group entities.
HSBC calculates the CVA by applying the probability of default (‘PD’) of the counterparty, conditional on the non-default of HSBC, to HSBC’s
expected positive exposure to the counterparty and multiplying the result by the loss expected in the event of default. Conversely, HSBC calculates
the DVA by applying the PD of HSBC, conditional on the non-default of the counterparty, to the expected positive exposure of the counterparty to
HSBC and multiplying the result by the loss expected in the event of default. Both calculations are performed over the life of the potential exposure.
For most products HSBC uses a simulation methodology, which incorporates a range of potential exposures over the life of the portfolio, to
calculate the expected positive exposure to a counterparty. The simulation methodology includes credit mitigants, such as counterparty netting
agreements and collateral agreements with the counterparty.
The methodologies do not, in general, account for ‘wrong-way risk’. Wrong-way risk is an adverse correlation between the counterparty’s probability of
default and the mark-to-market value of the underlying transaction. The risk can either be general, perhaps related to the currency of the issuer country,
or specific to the transaction concerned. When there is significant wrong-way risk, a trade-specific approach is applied to reflect this risk in the valuation.
Funding fair value adjustment
The funding fair value adjustment (‘FFVA’) is calculated by applying future market funding spreads to the expected future funding exposure of
any uncollateralised component of the OTC derivative portfolio. The expected future funding exposure is calculated by a simulation
methodology, where available, and is adjusted for events that may terminate the exposure, such as the default of HSBC or the counterparty.
Model limitation
Models used for portfolio valuation purposes may be based upon a simplified set of assumptions that do not capture all current and future
material market characteristics. In these circumstances, model limitation adjustments are adopted.

[PAGE 391]

Inception profit (Day 1 P&L reserves)
Inception profit adjustments are adopted when the fair value estimated by a valuation model is based on one or more significant unobservable
inputs. The accounting for inception profit adjustments is discussed in Note 1.
Fair value valuation bases
Financial instruments measured at fair value using a valuation technique with significant unobservable inputs – Level 3
Assets Liabilities
Designated and
otherwise mandatorily Designated
Financial Trading measured at fair value Trading at fair
investments assets through profit or loss Derivatives Total liabilities value Derivatives Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Private equity including
strategic investments 552 1 17,705 — 18,258 — 1 — 1
Asset-backed securities 182 198 — — 380 — — — —
Structured notes — — 3 — 3 — 9,113 — 9,113
Other derivatives — — — 2,149 2,149 — — 2,842 2,842
Other portfolios 2,000 6,476 2,036 — 10,512 784 3 — 787
At 31 Dec 2024 2,734 6,675 19,744 2,149 31,302 784 9,117 2,842 12,743
Private equity including
strategic investments 507 7 17,640 — 18,154 — 1 — 1
Asset-backed securities 309 128 8 — 445 — — — —
Structured notes — — 3 — 3 — 10,331 — 10,331
Other derivatives — — — 2,069 2,069 — — 2,569 2,569
Other portfolios 1,802 4,171 2,137 — 8,110 478 596 — 1,074
At 31 Dec 2023 2,618 4,306 19,788 2,069 28,781 478 10,928 2,569 13,975
Level 3 instruments are present in both ongoing and legacy businesses. Loans held for securitisation, derivatives with monolines, certain ‘other
derivatives’ and predominantly all Level 3 asset-backed securities are legacy positions. HSBC has the capability to hold these positions.
Private equity including strategic investments
The fair value of a private equity investment (including strategic investments) is estimated on the basis of an analysis of the investee’s financial
position and results, risk profile, prospects and other factors; by reference to market valuations for similar entities quoted in an active market;
the price at which similar companies have changed ownership; or from published net asset values (‘NAV’) received. If necessary, adjustments
are made to the NAV of funds to obtain the best estimate of fair value.
Asset-backed securities
While quoted market prices are generally used to determine the fair value of the asset-backed securities (‘ABSs’), valuation models are used to
substantiate the reliability of the limited market data available and to identify whether any adjustments to quoted market prices are required.
For certain ABSs, such as residential mortgage-backed securities, the valuation uses an industry standard model with assumptions relating to
prepayment speeds, default rates and loss severity based on collateral type, and performance, as appropriate. The valuations output is
benchmarked for consistency against observable data for securities of a similar nature.
Structured notes
The fair value of Level 3 structured notes is derived from the fair value of the underlying debt security, and the fair value of the embedded derivative is
determined as described in the paragraph below on derivatives. These structured notes comprise principally equity-linked notes issued by HSBC,
which provide the counterparty with a return linked to the performance of equity securities and other portfolios. Examples of the unobservable
parameters include long-dated equity volatilities and correlations between equity prices, and interest and foreign exchange rates.
Derivatives
OTC derivative valuation models calculate the present value of expected future cash flows, based upon ‘no arbitrage’ principles. For many
vanilla derivative products, the modelling approaches used are standard across the industry. For more complex derivative products, there may
be some differences in market practice. Inputs to valuation models are determined from observable market data wherever possible, including
prices available from exchanges, dealers, brokers or providers of consensus pricing. Certain inputs may not be observable in the market
directly, but can be determined from observable prices via model calibration procedures or estimated from historical data or other sources.
Financial
statements

[PAGE 392]

Notes on the financial statements
Reconciliation of fair value measurements in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy
Movement in Level 3 financial instruments
Assets Liabilities
Designated and
otherwise
mandatorily
measured at fair Designated
Financial Trading value through Trading at fair
investments assets profit or loss Derivatives liabilities value Derivatives
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m
At 1 Jan 2024 2,618 4,306 19,788 2,069 478 10,928 2,569
Total gains/(losses) recognised in profit or loss (9) 280 896 1,037 18 496 1,268
– net income/(losses) from financial instruments
held for trading or managed on a fair value basis — 280 — 1,037 18 496 1,268
– net income from assets and liabilities of insurance
businesses, including related derivatives,
measured at fair value through profit or loss — — 684 — — — —
– changes in fair value of other financial instruments
mandatorily measured at fair value through profit
or loss — — 212 — — — —
– gains less losses from financial investments at fair
value through other comprehensive income (9) — — — — — —
Total gains/(losses) recognised in other
comprehensive income (‘OCI’)1 (78) (115) (39) (36) (18) (45) (53)
– financial investments: fair value gains/(losses) 18 — — — — 33 —
– exchange differences (96) (115) (39) (36) (18) (78) (53)
Purchases 1,670 4,170 6,261 — 924 — —
New issuances — — — — — 6,521 —
Sales (97) (1,477) (649) — (295) — —
Settlements2 (1,011) (967) (6,476) (897) (307) (4,750) (568)
Transfers out3 (438) (429) (278) (777) (29) (6,048) (1,346)
Transfers in3 79 907 241 753 13 2,015 972
At 31 Dec 2024 2,734 6,675 19,744 2,149 784 9,117 2,842
Unrealised gains/(losses) recognised in profit or loss
relating to assets and liabilities held at 31 Dec 2024 — (150) 11 (1,377) (6) (94) (1,343)
– net income/(losses) from financial instruments
held for trading or managed on a fair value basis — (150) — (1,377) (6) — (1,343)
– changes in fair value of other financial instruments
mandatorily measured at fair value through profit
or loss — — 11 — — (94) —
At 1 Jan 2023 2,961 4,817 17,407 1,964 474 10,432 2,920
Total gains/(losses) recognised in profit or loss (44) 266 921 692 75 97 910
– net income/(losses) from financial instruments
held for trading or managed on a fair value basis — 266 — 692 75 97 910
– net income from assets and liabilities of insurance
businesses, including related derivatives,
measured at fair value through profit or loss — — — — — — —
– changes in fair value of other financial instruments
mandatorily measured at fair value through profit
or loss — — 921 — — — —
– gains less losses from financial investments at fair
value through other comprehensive income (44) — — — — — —
Total gains/(losses) recognised in other
comprehensive income (‘OCI’)1 28 108 87 81 24 523 111
– financial investments: fair value gains/(losses) (44) — — — — 335 —
– exchange differences 72 108 87 81 24 188 111
Purchases 353 2,276 3,555 — 291 — —
New issuances — 2 — — 2 5,389 —
Sales (290) (2,478) (658) — (320) (2) —
Settlements (352) (872) (1,886) (1,018) (74) (3,258) (1,565)
Transfers out (662) (922) (156) (240) (45) (2,881) (358)
Transfers in 624 1,109 518 590 51 628 551
At 31 Dec 2023 2,618 4,306 19,788 2,069 478 10,928 2,569
Unrealised gains/(losses) recognised in profit or loss
relating to assets and liabilities held at 31 Dec 2023 — (152) 82 737 — (433) (903)
– net income/(losses) from financial instruments
held for trading or managed on a fair value basis — (152) — 737 — — (903)
– changes in fair value of other financial instruments
mandatorily measured at fair value through profit
or loss — — 82 — — (433) —
1 Included in ‘financial investments: fair value gains/(losses)’ in the current year and ‘exchange differences’ in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
2 Includes $3.1bn decrease from classification of the assets of our French Life Insurance business as assets held for sale.
3 Includes $4.4bn of transfers out and $1.5bn of transfers in relating to enhancement of observability assessments on equity structured notes.
Transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy are deemed to occur at the end of each quarterly reporting period. Transfers are primarily
attributable to changes in price transparency and in the assessment of observability.

[PAGE 393]

Effect of changes in significant unobservable assumptions to reasonably
possible alternatives
Sensitivity of fair values to reasonably possible alternative assumptions
2024 2023
Reflected in profit or loss Reflected in OCI Reflected in profit or loss Reflected in OCI
Un- Un- Un- Un-
Favourable favourable Favourable favourable Favourable favourable Favourable favourable
changes changes changes changes changes changes changes changes
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Derivatives, trading assets and trading
liabilities1 481 (313) — — 492 (531) — —
Financial assets and liabilities designated
and otherwise mandatorily measured at
fair value through profit or loss 1,434 (1,141) — — 1,092 (1,100) — —
Financial investments 21 (21) 47 (50) 13 (12) 61 (66)
At 31 Dec 1,936 (1,475) 47 (50) 1,597 (1,643) 61 (66)
1 ‘Derivatives, trading assets and trading liabilities’ are presented as one category to reflect the manner in which these instruments are risk-managed.
The sensitivity analysis for certain private equity positions has been enhanced in order to reduce dependency on historical observations and
focus on current valuation uncertainty, resulting in some increases in favourable sensitivities.
The sensitivity analysis aims to measure a range of fair values consistent with the application of a 95% confidence interval. Methodologies take
account of the nature of the valuation technique employed, as well as the availability and reliability of observable proxy and historical data.
When the fair value of a financial instrument is affected by more than one unobservable assumption, the above table reflects the most
favourable or the most unfavourable change from varying the assumptions individually.
Key unobservable inputs to Level 3 financial instruments
The following table lists key unobservable inputs to Level 3 financial instruments and provides the range of those inputs at 31 December 2024.
Quantitative information about significant unobservable inputs in Level 3 valuations
Fair value 2024 2023
Full range Full range
Assets Liabilities Key valuation Key unobservable of inputs of inputs
$m $m techniques inputs Lower Higher Lower Higher
Private equity including strategic
investments2 18,258 1 Price – Net asset value Current Value/Cost 0 291 See footnote 2
Asset-backed securities 380 —
– collateralised loan/debt obligation 100 — Market proxy Price 0 97 0 94
– other ABSs 280 — Market proxy Price 0 248 0 220
Structured notes 3 9,113
Model – Option model Equity volatility 6% 70% 6% 154%
– equity-linked notes 3 5,739
Model – Option model Equity correlation 15% 100% 34% 100%
Foreign exchange
– Foreign exchange-linked notes — 1,833 Model – Option model volatility 3% 35% 1% 34%
– other structured notes — 1,541
Derivatives 2,149 2,842
– interest rate derivatives 1,102 1,066
securitisation swaps 196 186 Model – Discounted cash flow Prepayment rate 5% 10% 5% 10%
Interest rate
long-dated swaptions 71 76 Model – Option model volatility 9% 30% 11% 37%
other interest rate derivatives 835 804
– Foreign exchange derivatives 202 212
Foreign exchange
Foreign exchange options 154 174 Model – Option model volatility 1% 26% 1% 31%
other foreign exchange derivatives 48 38
– equity derivatives 460 638
long-dated single stock options 145 166 Model – Option model Equity volatility 6% 118% 6% 110%
other equity derivatives 315 472
– credit derivatives 376 922
total return swaps 349 847 Market proxy Price 0 104 0 104
other credit derivatives 27 75
– other derivatives 9 4
Other portfolios 10,512 787
– repurchase agreements 1,739 742 Model – Discounted cash flow Interest rate curve 0% 26% 3% 8%
– bonds 4,300 27 Market proxy Price 0 140 0 101
– other1 4,473 18
At 31 Dec 2024 31,302 12,743
1 ‘Other’ includes a range of asset holdings including loans and deposits, syndicated loans and infrastructure debt.
2 ‘Private equity including strategic investments’ includes private equity, private credit and private equity fund, primarily held as part of our Insurance business and
for strategic investments. The analysis for private equity positions has been enhanced with the range of key unobservable inputs now quoted.
Financial
statements

[PAGE 394]

Notes on the financial statements
The range of values above shows the highest and lowest unobservable inputs that have been used to value significant Level 3 exposures and
reflects the diversity of the underlying financial instruments in scope and subsequent differentiation in pricing.
Private equity including strategic investments
The ‘private equity’ holdings include private equity investments and private equity funds held as limited partners. The key unobservable input is
the current value of the underlying positions, determined using valuation techniques in line with the International Capital Valuation Guidelines.
The inputs represented are an appropriate range of inputs normalised across different exposure types.
Prepayment rates
Prepayment rates are a measure of the anticipated future speed at which a loan portfolio will be repaid in advance of the due date. They vary
according to the nature of the loan portfolio and expectations of future market conditions, and may be estimated using a variety of evidence,
such as prepayment rates implied from proxy observable security prices, current or historical prepayment rates and macroeconomic modelling.
Market proxy
Market proxy pricing may be used for an instrument when specific market pricing is not available but there is evidence from instruments with
common characteristics. In some cases it might be possible to identify a specific proxy, but more generally evidence across a wider range of
instruments will be used to understand the factors that influence current market pricing and the manner of that influence.
Volatility
Volatility is a measure of the anticipated future variability of a market price. It varies by underlying reference market price, and by strike and
maturity of the option. Certain volatilities, typically those of a longer-dated nature, are unobservable and are estimated from observable data.
The range of unobservable volatilities reflects the wide variation in volatility inputs by reference market price.
Correlation
Correlation is a measure of the inter-relationship between two market variables and is expressed as a number between minus one and one. It
is used to value more complex instruments where the payout is dependent upon more than one market variable. There is a wide range of
instruments for which correlation is an input, and consequently a wide range of both same-asset correlations and cross-asset correlations is
used. In general, the range of same-asset correlations will be narrower than the range of cross-asset correlations.
Unobservable correlations may be estimated based upon a range of evidence, including consensus pricing services, HSBC trade prices, proxy
correlations and examination of historical price relationships. The range of unobservable correlations quoted in the table reflects the wide
variation in correlation inputs by market variable pair.
Credit spread
Credit spread is the premium over a benchmark interest rate required by the market to accept lower credit quality. In a discounted cash flow
model, the credit spread increases the discount factors applied to future cash flows, thereby reducing the value of an asset. Credit spreads may
be implied from market prices and may not be observable in more illiquid markets.
Inter-relationships between key unobservable inputs
Key unobservable inputs to Level 3 financial instruments may not be independent of each other. As described above, market variables may be
correlated. This correlation typically reflects the manner in which different markets tend to react to macroeconomic or other events.
Furthermore, the effect of changing market variables on the HSBC portfolio will depend on HSBC’s net risk position in respect of each variable.
HSBC Holdings
Basis of valuing HSBC Holdings’ financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value
2024 2023
Level 1 Level 2 Total Level 1 Level 2 Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m
Recurring fair value measurement
Assets at 31 Dec
Trading assets 709 — 709 — — —
Financial assets with HSBC undertakings designated and
otherwise mandatorily measured at fair value — 61,286 61,286 — 59,879 59,879
Derivatives — 3,054 3,054 — 3,344 3,344
Liabilities at 31 Dec
Financial liabilities designated at fair value — 41,582 41,582 — 43,638 43,638
Derivatives — 5,340 5,340 — 6,090 6,090

[PAGE 395]

13 Fair values of financial instruments not carried at fair value
Fair values of financial instruments not carried at fair value and bases of valuation
Fair value
Significant
Carrying Quoted market Observable unobservable
amount price Level 1 inputs Level 2 inputs Level 3 Total
$m $m $m $m $m
At 31 Dec 2024
Assets
Loans and advances to banks 102,039 — 101,007 1,048 102,055
Loans and advances to customers1 930,658 — 11,435 906,208 917,643
Reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading 252,549 — 252,598 — 252,598
Financial investments – at amortised cost 153,973 120,843 29,493 724 151,060
Liabilities
Deposits by banks 73,997 — 74,025 — 74,025
Customer accounts 1,654,955 — 1,655,151 — 1,655,151
Repurchase agreements – non-trading 180,880 — 180,873 — 180,873
Debt securities in issue 105,785 — 105,689 954 106,643
Subordinated liabilities 25,958 — 28,262 — 28,262
At 31 Dec 2023
Assets
Loans and advances to banks 112,902 2 111,263 1,479 112,744
Loans and advances to customers 938,535 — 13,258 911,124 924,382
Reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading 252,217 — 252,243 — 252,243
Financial investments – at amortised cost 148,326 115,383 30,765 440 146,588
Liabilities
Deposits by banks 73,163 — 73,176 — 73,176
Customer accounts 1,611,647 — 1,611,795 — 1,611,795
Repurchase agreements – non-trading 172,100 — 172,081 — 172,081
Debt securities in issue 93,917 — 93,196 706 93,902
Subordinated liabilities 24,954 — 27,151 — 27,151
1 Includes retained portfolio of French home and other loans following the sale of retail banking operations in France, with carrying amount of $6.9bn (2023:
$7.9bn). We reclassified the portfolio to a hold-to-collect-and-sell business model from 1 January 2025 and will measure it prospectively from the first quarter of
2025 at fair value through other comprehensive income. We expect to recognise an estimated $1bn fair value pre-tax loss in other comprehensive income on
the remeasurement of these financial instruments. The valuation of this portfolio of loans may be substantially different in the event of a sale due to entity and
deal-specific factors, including funding costs and the value of customer relationships (refer Note 23 for details).
Fair values of financial instruments not carried at fair value and bases of valuation – assets and disposal groups held for sale
Fair value
Significant
Carrying Quoted market Observable unobservable
amount price Level 1 inputs Level 2 inputs Level 3 Total
$m $m $m $m $m
At 31 Dec 2024
Assets
Loans and advances to banks 144 — 144 — 144
Loans and advances to customers 977 — 11 966 977
Reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading — — — — —
Financial investments – at amortised cost — — — — —
Liabilities
Deposits by banks — — — — —
Customer accounts 5,399 — 5,399 — 5,399
Repurchase agreements – non-trading — — — — —
Debt securities in issue — — — — —
Subordinated liabilities — — — — —
At 31 Dec 2023
Assets
Loans and advances to banks 10,487 — 10,487 — 10,487
Loans and advances to customers 73,376 — 90 72,200 72,290
Reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading 2,723 — 2,723 — 2,723
Financial investments – at amortised cost 7,624 7,530 — 5 7,535
Liabilities
Deposits by banks 78 — 78 — 78
Customer accounts 85,950 — 86,475 — 86,475
Repurchase agreements – non-trading 2,768 — 2,768 — 2,768
Debt securities in issue 9,084 — 8,820 — 8,820
Subordinated liabilities 8 — 7 — 7
Financial
statements

[PAGE 396]

Notes on the financial statements
Other financial instruments not carried at fair value are typically short term in nature and reprice to current market rates frequently. Accordingly,
their carrying amount is a reasonable approximation of fair value. They include cash and balances at central banks, Hong Kong Government
certificates of indebtedness and Hong Kong currency notes in circulation, all of which are measured at amortised cost.
Valuation
Fair value is an estimate of the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between
market participants at the measurement date. This may be different from the theoretical economic value attributed from an instrument’s cash
flows over its expected future life. Our valuation methodologies and assumptions in determining fair values for which no observable market
prices are available may differ from those of other companies.
Loans and advances to banks and customers
To determine the fair value of loans and advances to banks and customers, loans are segregated into portfolios of similar characteristics. Fair
values are based on observable market transactions, when available. When they are unavailable, fair values are estimated using valuation
models incorporating a range of input assumptions. These assumptions may include: value estimates from third-party brokers reflecting over-
the-counter trading activity; forward-looking discounted cash flow models, taking account of expected customer prepayment rates, using
assumptions that HSBC believes are consistent with those that would be used by market participants in valuing such loans; recent origination
pricing for similar loans; and trading inputs from other market participants including observed primary and secondary trades. From time to time,
we may engage a third-party valuation specialist to measure the fair value of a pool of loans.
The fair value of loans reflects expected credit losses at the balance sheet date and estimates of market participants’ expectations of credit
losses over the life of the loans, and the fair value effect of repricing between origination and the balance sheet date. For credit-impaired loans,
fair value is estimated by discounting the future cash flows over the time period they are expected to be recovered.
Financial investments
The fair values of listed financial investments are determined using bid market prices. The fair values of unlisted financial investments are
determined using valuation techniques that incorporate the prices and future earnings streams of equivalent quoted securities.
Deposits by banks and customer accounts
The fair values of on-demand deposits are approximated by their carrying amount. For deposits with longer-term maturities, fair values are
estimated using discounted cash flows, applying current rates offered for deposits of similar remaining maturities.
Debt securities in issue and subordinated liabilities
Fair values in debt securities in issue and subordinated liabilities are determined using quoted market prices at the balance sheet date where
available, or by reference to quoted market prices for similar instruments.
Repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading
Carrying amounts of repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements that are held on a non-trading basis provide approximate fair values. This
is due to the fact that balances are generally short dated.
HSBC Holdings
The methods used by HSBC Holdings to determine fair values of financial instruments for the purposes of measurement and disclosure are
described above.
Fair values of HSBC Holdings’ financial instruments not carried at fair value on the balance sheet
2024 2023
Carrying amount Fair value1 Carrying amount Fair value1
$m $m $m $m
Assets at 31 Dec
Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings 37,677 38,359 27,354 27,878
Financial investments – at amortised cost 10,328 10,335 19,558 19,531
Liabilities at 31 Dec
Debt securities in issue 64,320 65,123 65,239 65,172
Subordinated liabilities 23,548 25,911 24,439 26,651
1 Fair values (other than Financial investments which are Level 1) were determined using valuation techniques with observable inputs (Level 2).

[PAGE 397]

14 Financial assets designated and otherwise mandatorily measured at fair
value through profit or loss
2024 2023
Mandatorily Mandatorily
Designated at measured at Designated measured at
fair value fair value Total at fair value fair value Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m
Securities 2,406 104,093 106,499 2,353 101,152 103,505
– treasury and other eligible bills 732 393 1,125 695 724 1,419
– debt securities 1,674 59,904 61,578 1,658 60,045 61,703
– equity securities — 43,796 43,796 — 40,383 40,383
Loans and advances to banks and customers 951 6,120 7,071 371 5,495 5,866
Other — 2,199 2,199 — 1,272 1,272
At 31 Dec 3,357 112,412 115,769 2,724 107,919 110,643
15 Derivatives
Notional contract amounts and fair values of derivatives by product contract type held by HSBC
Notional contract amount Fair value – Assets Fair value – Liabilities
Trading Hedging Trading Hedging Total Trading Hedging Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Foreign exchange 11,706,591 82,161 142,055 2,738 144,793 133,910 75 133,985
Interest rate 17,316,173 406,109 209,794 4,790 214,584 212,980 4,930 217,910
Equities 768,732 — 17,116 — 17,116 20,643 — 20,643
Credit 143,136 — 1,756 — 1,756 1,769 — 1,769
Commodity and other 118,180 — 3,134 — 3,134 2,887 — 2,887
Gross total fair values 30,052,812 488,270 373,855 7,528 381,383 372,189 5,005 377,194
Offset (Note 31) (112,746) (112,746)
At 31 Dec 2024 30,052,812 488,270 373,855 7,528 268,637 372,189 5,005 264,448
Foreign exchange 9,463,768 63,547 99,014 935 99,949 99,949 780 100,729
Interest rate 14,853,397 361,312 223,534 5,119 228,653 225,443 4,080 229,523
Equities 677,149 — 14,427 — 14,427 17,603 — 17,603
Credit 153,606 — 1,351 — 1,351 1,861 — 1,861
Commodity and other 90,007 — 1,820 — 1,820 1,542 — 1,542
Gross total fair values 25,237,927 424,859 340,146 6,054 346,200 346,398 4,860 351,258
Offset (Note 31) (116,486) (116,486)
At 31 Dec 2023 25,237,927 424,859 340,146 6,054 229,714 346,398 4,860 234,772
The notional contract amounts of derivatives held for trading purposes and derivatives designated in hedge accounting relationships indicate the
nominal value of transactions outstanding at the balance sheet date. They do not represent amounts at risk.
Notional contract amounts and fair values of derivatives by product contract type held by HSBC Holdings with subsidiaries
Notional contract amount Assets Liabilities
Trading Hedging Trading Hedging Total Trading Hedging Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Foreign exchange 51,437 — 796 — 796 1,015 — 1,015
Interest rate 30,535 90,074 1,544 714 2,258 487 3,838 4,325
At 31 Dec 2024 81,972 90,074 2,340 714 3,054 1,502 3,838 5,340
Foreign exchange 66,711 — 486 — 486 1,705 — 1,705
Interest rate 33,480 92,268 1,730 1,128 2,858 747 3,638 4,385
At 31 Dec 2023 100,191 92,268 2,216 1,128 3,344 2,452 3,638 6,090
Use of derivatives
For details regarding the use of derivatives, see page 218 under ‘Market risk’.
Trading derivatives
Most of HSBC’s derivative transactions relate to sales and trading activities. Sales activities include the structuring and marketing of derivative
products to customers to enable them to take, transfer, modify or reduce current or expected risks. Trading activities include market-making
and risk management. Market-making entails quoting bid and offer prices to other market participants for the purpose of generating revenue
based on spread and volume. Risk management activity is undertaken to manage the risk arising from client transactions, with the principal
purpose of retaining client margin. Other derivatives classified as held for trading include non-qualifying hedging derivatives.
Substantially all of HSBC Holdings’ derivatives entered into with subsidiaries are managed in conjunction with financial liabilities.
Financial
statements

[PAGE 398]

Notes on the financial statements
Hedge accounting derivatives
HSBC applies hedge accounting to manage the following risks: interest rate and foreign exchange risks. Further details of how these risks arise
and how they are managed by the Group can be found in the ‘Risk review’.
Hedged risk components
HSBC designates a portion of cash flows of a financial instrument or a group of financial instruments for a specific interest rate or foreign
currency risk component in a fair value or cash flow hedge. The designated risks and portions are either contractually specified or otherwise
separately identifiable components of the financial instrument that are reliably measurable. Risk-free or benchmark interest rates generally are
regarded as being both separately identifiable and reliably measurable, except for the Interest Rate Benchmark Reform Phase 2 transition
where HSBC designates alternative benchmark rates as the hedged risk which may not have been separately identifiable upon initial
designation, provided HSBC reasonably expects it will meet the requirement within 24 months from the first designation date. The designated
risk components account for a significant portion of the overall changes in fair value or cash flows of the hedged items.
HSBC uses net investment hedges to hedge the structural foreign exchange risk related to net investments in foreign operations including
subsidiaries and branches whose functional currencies are different from that of the parent. When hedging with foreign exchange forward
contracts, the spot rate component of the foreign exchange risk is designated for an amount of net assets as the hedged risk.
Sources of hedge ineffectiveness may arise from basis risk, including but not limited to the discount rates used for calculating the fair value of
derivatives, hedges using instruments with a non-zero fair value, and notional and timing differences between the hedged items and hedging
instruments.
Fair value hedges
HSBC enters into fixed-for-floating interest rate swaps to manage the exposure to changes in fair value caused by movements in market
interest rates on certain fixed-rate financial instruments that are not measured at fair value through profit or loss, including debt securities held
and issued.
HSBC hedging instrument by hedged risk
Hedging instrument
Carrying amount
Notional amount1,2 Assets Liabilities Balance sheet Change in fair value3
Hedged risk $m $m $m presentation $m
Interest rate4 190,332 4,180 4,411 Derivatives (449)
At 31 Dec 2024 190,332 4,180 4,411 (449)
Interest rate4 172,985 3,729 2,965 Derivatives (1,043)
At 31 Dec 2023 172,985 3,729 2,965 (1,043)
1 The notional contract amounts of derivatives designated in qualifying hedge accounting relationships indicate the nominal value of transactions outstanding at
the balance sheet date. They do not represent amounts at risk.
2 The notional amount of non-dynamic fair value hedges is equal to $71,916m (2023: $62,480m), of which the weighted-average maturity date is March 2031 and
the weighted-average swap rate is 3.24% (2023: 3.04%).
3 Used in effectiveness testing, which uses the full fair value change of the hedging instrument not excluding any component.
4 The hedged risk ‘interest rate’ includes inflation risk.
HSBC hedged item by hedged risk
Hedged item Ineffectiveness
Accumulated fair value
hedge adjustments
included in carrying Recognised
Carrying amount amount1 Change in in profit
Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Balance sheet fair value2 and loss Profit and loss
Hedged risk $m $m $m $m presentation $m $m presentation
Financial investments -
measured at fair value
through other
93,055 (2,701) comprehensive income (728)
Net income from
Financial investments -
financial instruments
measured at amortised
492 11 cost (14) (8) held for trading or
managed on a fair
Interest rate3 Loans and advances to
value basis
13,915 (104) — customers 16
Reverse repurchase
agreements – non-
— — trading —
72,576 (1,800) Debt securities in issue 1,110
207 — Customer accounts —
1,205 (266) Subordinated liabilities 57
At 31 Dec 2024 107,462 73,988 (2,794) (2,066) 441 (8)

[PAGE 399]

HSBC hedged item by hedged risk (continued)
Hedged item Ineffectiveness
Accumulated fair value
hedge adjustments
included in carrying Recognised
Carrying amount amount1 Change in fair in profit
Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities value2 and loss Profit and loss
Hedged risk $m $m $m $m Balance sheet presentation $m $m presentation
Financial investments -
measured at fair value through
82,321 (2,282) other comprehensive income 2,053
Financial investments - Net income from
514 32 measured at amortised cost 32 financial instruments
5
Interest rate3 Loans and advances to held for trading or
4,701 (18) customers 122 managed on a fair
Reverse repurchase value basis
— — agreements – non-trading 15
64,269 (2,147) Debt securities in issue (1,179)
— — Deposits by banks —
— — Subordinated liabilities 5
At 31 Dec 2023 87,536 64,269 (2,268) (2,147) 1,048 5
1 The accumulated amount of fair value hedge adjustments remaining in the statement of financial position for hedged items that have ceased to be adjusted for
hedging gains and losses were liabilities of $311m (2023: $136m) for FVOCI assets and liabilities of $745m (2023: $1,256m) for debt issued.
2 Used in effectiveness testing, which comprise an amount attributable to the designated hedged risk that can be a risk component.
3 The hedged risk ‘interest rate’ includes inflation risk.
HSBC Holdings hedging instrument by hedged risk
Hedging instrument
Carrying amount
Notional amount1,2 Assets Liabilities Balance sheet Change in fair value3
Hedged risk $m $m $m presentation $m
Interest rate4 90,074 714 3,838 Derivatives (1,103)
At 31 Dec 2024 90,074 714 3,838 (1,103)
Interest rate4 92,268 1,128 3,638 Derivatives 1,426
At 31 Dec 2023 92,268 1,128 3,638 1,426
1 The notional contract amounts of derivatives designated in qualifying hedge accounting relationships indicate the nominal value of transactions outstanding at
the balance sheet date. They do not represent amounts at risk.
2 The notional amount of non-dynamic fair value hedges is equal to $90,074m (2023: $92,268m), of which the weighted-average maturity date is May 2030 and
the weighted-average swap rate is 2.78% (2023: 2.46%). The majority of these hedges are internal to the Group.
3 Used in effectiveness testing, comprising the full fair value change of the hedging instrument not excluding any component.
4 The hedged risk ‘interest rate’ includes foreign exchange risk.
HSBC Holdings hedged item by hedged risk
Hedged item Ineffectiveness
Accumulated fair value
hedge adjustments
included in carrying Recognised
Carrying amount amount1 Change in in profit
Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Balance sheet fair value2 and loss Profit and loss
Hedged risk $m $m $m $m presentation $m $m presentation
Debt securities Net income from
financial instruments
78,402 (2,423) in issue 861 (9)
Interest rate3 held for trading or
Loans and managed on a fair value
7,769 (244) advances to banks 233 basis
At 31 Dec 2024 7,769 78,402 (244) (2,423) 1,094 (9)
Debt securities Net income from financial
Interest rate3 80,889 (2,971) in issue (1,716) 29 instruments held for
Loans and trading or managed on a
7,772 (490) advances to banks 319 fair value basis
At 31 Dec 2023 7,772 80,889 (490) (2,971) (1,397) 29
1 The accumulated amount of fair value hedge adjustments remaining in the statement of financial position for hedged items that have ceased to be adjusted for
hedging gains and losses were liabilities of $1,216m (2023: $1,299m) for debt issued.
2 Used in effectiveness testing, comprising amount attributable to the designated hedged risk that can be a risk component.
3 The hedged risk ‘interest rate’ includes foreign exchange risk.
For some debt securities held, HSBC manages interest rate risk in a dynamic risk management strategy. The assets in scope of this strategy
are high-quality fixed-rate debt securities, which may be sold to meet liquidity and funding requirements.
The interest rate risk of the HSBC fixed-rate debt securities issued is managed in a non-dynamic risk management strategy.
Financial
statements

[PAGE 400]

Notes on the financial statements
Cash flow hedges
HSBC’s cash flow hedging instruments consist principally of interest rate swaps and cross-currency swaps that are used to manage the
variability in future interest cash flows of non-trading financial assets and liabilities, arising due to changes in market interest rates and foreign-
currency basis.
HSBC applies macro cash flow hedging for interest rate risk exposures on portfolios of replenishing current and forecasted issuances of non-
trading assets and liabilities that bear interest at variable rates, including rolling such instruments. The amounts and timing of future cash flows,
representing both principal and interest flows, are projected for each portfolio of financial assets and liabilities on the basis of their contractual
terms and other relevant factors, including estimates of prepayments and defaults. The aggregate cash flows representing both principal
balances and interest cash flows across all portfolios are used to determine the effectiveness and ineffectiveness. Macro cash flow hedges are
considered to be dynamic hedges.
HSBC also hedges the variability in future cash flows on foreign-denominated financial assets and liabilities arising due to changes in foreign
exchange market rates with cross-currency swaps, which are considered dynamic hedges.
Hedging instrument by hedged risk
Hedging instrument Hedged item Ineffectiveness
Carrying amount Recognised
Notional Balance Change in Change in fair in profit
amount1 Assets Liabilities sheet fair value2 value3 and loss Profit and loss
Hedged risk $m $m $m presentation $m $m $m presentation
Net income from
financial instruments
Foreign currency 47,194 2,088 68 Derivatives 2,451 2,451 —
held for trading or
managed on a fair
Interest rate 215,777 619 519 Derivatives (2,954) (2,964) 10 value basis
At 31 Dec 2024 262,971 2,707 587 (503) (513) 10
Net income from
financial instruments
Foreign currency 29,772 935 257 Derivatives 977 977 —
held for trading or
managed on a fair
Interest rate 188,327 1,390 1,116 Derivatives 1,542 1,512 30 value basis
At 31 Dec 2023 218,099 2,325 1,373 2,519 2,489 30
1 The notional contract amounts of derivatives designated in qualifying hedge accounting relationships indicate the nominal value of transactions outstanding at
the balance sheet date. They do not represent amounts at risk.
2 Used in effectiveness testing, comprising the full fair value change of the hedging instrument not excluding any component.
3 Used in effectiveness assessment, comprising amount attributable to the designated hedged risk that can be a risk component.
Reconciliation of equity and analysis of other comprehensive income by risk type
Interest rate Foreign currency
$m $m
Cash flow hedging reserve at 1 Jan 2024 (901) (132)
Fair value gains/(losses) (2,964) 2,451
Fair value (gains)/losses reclassified from the cash flow hedge reserve to the income statement in respect of:
Hedged items that have affected profit or loss1 2,529 (2,430)
Income taxes 81 1
Others 199 87
Cash flow hedging reserve at 31 Dec 2024 (1,056) (23)
Cash flow hedging reserve at 1 Jan 2023 (3,387) (421)
Fair value gains/(losses) 1,512 977
Fair value (gains)/losses reclassified from the cash flow hedge reserve to the income statement in respect of:
Hedged items that have affected profit or loss1 2,196 (718)
Income taxes (937) (29)
Others (285) 59
Cash flow hedging reserve at 31 Dec 2023 (901) (132)
1 Hedged items that have affected profit or loss are primarily recorded within interest income.

[PAGE 401]

Net investment hedges
The Group applies hedge accounting in respect of certain net investments in non-US dollar functional currency foreign operations for changes in
spot exchange rates only. Hedging could be undertaken for Group structural exposure to changes in the US dollar to foreign currency exchange
rates using forward foreign exchange contracts or by financing with foreign currency borrowings. An economic relationship exists between the
hedged net investment and hedging instrument due to the shared foreign currency risk exposure. For further details of our structural foreign
exchange exposures, see page 212.
The aggregate positions at the reporting date and the performance indicators of both live and de-designated hedges are summarised below.
Hedges of net investment in foreign operations
Carrying amount Amounts Hedge ineffectiveness
Derivative Derivative Nominal recognised Change in recognised in income
assets liabilities amount in OCI1 fair value2 statement
Description of hedged risk $m $m $m $m $m $m
2024
Pound sterling-denominated structural foreign exchange 397 (1) 15,407 833 229 —
Swiss franc-denominated structural foreign exchange 10 — 556 89 40 —
Hong Kong dollar-denominated structural foreign exchange 1 (3) 5,844 (27) (26) —
Other structural foreign exchange3 242 (3) 13,160 907 499 —
Total 650 (7) 34,967 1,803 742 —
2023
Pound sterling-denominated structural foreign exchange (404) 16,415 604 (843) —
Swiss franc-denominated structural foreign exchange (23) 526 49 (62) —
Hong Kong dollar-denominated structural foreign exchange — 5,792 — 2 —
Other structural foreign exchange3 (96) 11,042 477 102 —
Total — (523) 33,775 1,130 (801) —
1 Amount recognised in OCI for Swiss franc includes $110m (2023: $110m) related to de-designated hedge.
2 Used in effectiveness assessment, comprising amount attributable to the designated hedged risk that can be a risk component.
3 Other currencies include Euro, New Taiwan dollar, Singapore dollar, Canadian dollar, Omani rial, South Korean won, UAE dirham, Indian rupee, Chinese
renminbi, Kuwaiti dinar, Qatari riyal, Saudi riyal, Indonesian rupiah, Thai baht and Philippine peso.
16 Financial investments
Carrying amount of financial investments
2024 2023
$m $m
Financial investments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income 339,193 294,437
– treasury and other eligible bills 112,705 102,438
– debt securities 224,496 190,119
– equity securities 1,569 1,447
– other instruments 423 433
Debt instruments measured at amortised cost 153,973 148,326
– treasury and other eligible bills 22,148 30,733
– debt securities 131,825 117,593
At 31 Dec 493,166 442,763
Equity instruments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income
Dividends
Fair value recognised
Type of equity instruments $m $m
Investments required by central institutions 620 29
Business facilitation 886 29
Others 63 2
At 31 Dec 2024 1,569 60
Investments required by central institutions 609 27
Business facilitation 793 35
Others 45 2
At 31 Dec 2023 1,447 64
Financial
statements

[PAGE 402]

Notes on the financial statements
Weighted average yields of investment debt securities
Up to 1 1 to 5 5 to 10 Over 10
year years years years
Yield Yield Yield Yield
% % % %
Debt securities measured at fair value through other comprehensive income
US Treasury 2.9 3.4 2.5 2.3
US Government agencies 0.8 — 3.1 3.1
US Government-sponsored agencies 1.7 3.5 1.6 1.8
UK Government 3.8 3.8 2.3 2.4
Hong Kong Government — 1.9 2.0 —
Other governments 2.7 4.1 3.7 2.3
Asset-backed securities 3.4 3.0 5.4 4.3
Corporate debt and other securities 2.7 3.5 3.2 1.9
Debt securities measured at amortised cost
US Treasury 3.5 3.8 3.8 2.1
US Government agencies 0.7 0.7 1.1 4.6
US Government-sponsored agencies — 2.8 3.7 2.9
UK Government 3.5 2.9 2.8 —
Hong Kong Government — 2.7 — —
Other governments 2.8 4.1 5.2 —
Asset-backed securities — — 7.7 —
Corporate debt and other securities 2.7 2.9 3.2 4.8
The maturity distributions of ABSs are presented in the above table on the basis of contractual maturity dates. The weighted average yield for
each range of maturities is calculated by dividing the annualised interest income for the year ended 31 December 2024 by the book amount of
debt securities at that date. The yields do not include the effect of related derivatives.
HSBC Holdings
HSBC Holdings carrying amount of financial investments
2024 2023
$m $m
Debt instruments measured at amortised cost
– treasury and other eligible bills 9,556 15,629
– debt securities 772 3,929
At 31 Dec 10,328 19,558
Weighted average yields of investment debt securities
Up to 1 1 to 5 5 to 10 Over 10
year years years years
Yield Yield Yield Yield
% % % %
Debt securities measured at amortised cost
US Treasury 4.3 — — —
The weighted average yield for each range of maturities is calculated by dividing the annualised interest income for the year ended
31 December 2024 by the book amount of debt securities at that date. The yields do not include the effect of related derivatives.
17 Assets pledged, collateral received and assets transferred
Assets pledged1
Financial assets pledged as collateral
2024 2023
$m $m
Treasury bills and other eligible securities 17,713 20,504
Loans and advances to banks 14,880 13,636
Loans and advances to customers 24,524 27,490
Debt securities 91,975 88,367
Equity securities 51,642 40,280
Other 63,386 61,223
Assets pledged at 31 Dec 264,120 251,500

[PAGE 403]

The value of assets pledged to secure liabilities may be greater than the book value of assets utilised as collateral. For example, in the case of
securitisations and covered bonds, the amount of liabilities issued plus mandatory over-collateralisation is less than the book value of the pool
of assets available for use as collateral. This is also the case where assets are placed with a custodian or a settlement agent that has a floating
charge over all the assets placed to secure any liabilities under settlement accounts.
These transactions are conducted under terms that are usual and customary for collateralised transactions including, where relevant, standard
securities lending and borrowing, repurchase agreements and derivative margining. HSBC places both cash and non-cash collateral in relation to
derivative transactions.
Hong Kong currency notes in circulation are secured by the deposit of funds in respect of which the Hong Kong Government certificates of
indebtedness are held.
Financial assets pledged as collateral which the counterparty has the right to sell or repledge
2024 2023
$m $m
Trading assets 84,863 77,847
Financial investments 47,248 39,324
At 31 Dec 132,111 117,171
Collateral received1
The fair value of assets accepted as collateral relating primarily to standard securities lending, reverse repurchase agreements, swaps of
securities and derivative margining that HSBC is permitted to sell or repledge in the absence of default was $515,267m (2023: $495,653m).
The fair value of any such collateral sold or repledged was $293,460m (2023: $284,108m).
HSBC is obliged to return equivalent securities. These transactions are conducted under terms that are usual and customary to standard
securities lending, reverse repurchase agreements and derivative margining.
Assets transferred1
The assets pledged include transfers to third parties that do not qualify for derecognition, including secured borrowings such as debt securities
held by counterparties as collateral under repurchase agreements and equity securities lent under securities lending agreements, as well as
swaps of equity and debt securities. For secured borrowings, the transferred asset collateral continues to be recognised in full while a related
liability, reflecting the Group’s obligation to repurchase the assets for a fixed price at a future date, is also recognised on the balance sheet.
Where securities are swapped, the transferred asset continues to be recognised in full. There is no associated liability as the non-cash collateral
received is not recognised on the balance sheet. The Group is unable to use, sell or pledge the transferred assets for the duration of the
transaction, and remains exposed to interest rate risk and credit risk on these pledged assets.
Transferred financial assets not qualifying for full derecognition and associated financial liabilities
Carrying amount of:
Transferred Associated
assets liabilities
$m $m
At 31 Dec 2024
Repurchase agreements 83,585 75,625
Securities lending agreements 58,232 4,361
At 31 Dec 2023
Repurchase agreements 81,486 74,517
Securities lending agreements 46,663 3,826
1 Excludes assets classified as held for sale.
18 Interests in associates and joint ventures
Carrying amount of HSBC’s interests in associates and joint ventures
2024 2023
$m $m
Interests in associates 28,777 27,200
Interests in joint ventures 132 144
Interests in associates and joint ventures 28,909 27,344
Principal associates of HSBC
2024 2023
Carrying amount Fair value1 Carrying amount Fair value1
$m $m $m $m
Bank of Communications Co., Limited 22,367 11,631 21,210 8,812
Saudi Awwal Bank 5,027 5,705 4,659 6,438
1 Principal associates are listed on recognised stock exchanges. The fair values are based on the quoted market prices of the shares held (Level 1 in the fair value
hierarchy).
Financial
statements

[PAGE 404]

Notes on the financial statements
Principal associates of HSBC (continued)
At 31 Dec 2024
Jurisdiction of incorporation
and principal place of HSBC’s interest1
business Principal activity %
Bank of Communications Co., Limited Mainland China Banking services 19.03
Saudi Awwal Bank Saudi Arabia Banking services 31.00
1 There has been no percentage change in HSBC’s shareholding interest in the principal associates when compared with 2023.
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures
2024 2023
$m $m
Bank of Communications Co., Limited 2,241 2,250
Saudi Awwal Bank 596 538
Other associates and joint ventures 75 19
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures 2,912 2,807
Less: Impairment of interest in BoCom — (3,000)
A list of all associates and joint ventures is set out in Note 38.
Bank of Communications Co., Limited
The Group maintains a 19.03% interest in Bank of Communications Co., Limited (‘BoCom’). The Group’s investment in BoCom is classified as
an associate. Significant influence in BoCom was established with consideration of all relevant factors, including representation on BoCom’s
Board of Directors and participation in a resource and experience sharing agreement (‘RES’). Under the RES, HSBC staff have been seconded
to assist in the maintenance of BoCom’s financial and operating policies. Investments in associates are recognised using the equity method of
accounting in accordance with IAS 28 ‘Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures’, whereby the investment is initially recognised at cost
and adjusted thereafter for the post-acquisition change in the Group’s share of associate’s net assets. An impairment test is required if there is
any indication of impairment or reversal.
At 31 December 2023, the Group performed an impairment test on the carrying amount, which resulted in an impairment of $3.0bn, as the
recoverable amount as determined by a value in use (‘VIU’) calculation was lower than the carrying amount. No further impairment was
required for the year ended 31 December 2024.
If the Group did not have significant influence in BoCom, the investment would be carried at fair value rather than the current carrying amount.
On 24 September 2024, the People’s Bank of China, National Financial Regulatory Administration and China Securities Regulatory Commission
announced several policies aimed at promoting growth and economic development. These included monetary stimulus, property market
support and capital market strengthening measures, as well as measures to recapitalise the largest commercial banks. In the absence of
further details on how the recapitalisation of the largest commercial banks may be enacted, there is no change to the impairment test result at
31 December 2024. As further details become available, the impairment test will be updated to reflect their impact and may result in a change
to the carrying value of our investment in BoCom. These developments have the potential to impact on the Group‘s reported earnings, but are
unlikely to have an impact on HSBC's capital or capital ratios.
We remain supportive of our relationship with BoCom and will consider any broader implications on the carrying value of our investment as
further details become available.
Impairment testing
At 31 December 2024, the carrying amount of the investment was $22.4bn (2023: $21.2bn) with fair value of $11.6bn (2023: $8.8bn). The
Group has concluded there is no indication of further impairment (or indication that an impairment may no longer exist or may have decreased)
since 31 December 2023. As part of this assessment, the Group updated the VIU calculation which supported that there was no significant
change to the 31 December 2023 impairment position. As a result, no additional impairment to the carrying amount (or reversal of impairment)
was made at 31 December 2024.
Basis of recoverable amount
The VIU calculation uses discounted cash flow projections based on management’s best estimates of future earnings available to ordinary
shareholders prepared in accordance with IAS 36 ’Impairment of Assets’. Those cash flows used estimates based on BoCom’s current
condition and so do not include estimated cash flows arising from uncommitted future actions that may affect the performance of the
investment which will be considered at the relevant time should they arise. Significant management judgement is required in arriving at the
best estimate.
The VIU may increase or decrease depending on the effect of changes to model inputs. The main model inputs are described below and are
based on factors observed at period-end. The factors that could result in increases or reductions in the VIU include changes in BoCom’s short-
term performance, a change in regulatory capital requirements or revisions to the forecast of BoCom’s future profitability.
There are two main components to the VIU calculation. The first component is management’s best estimate of BoCom’s earnings. Forecast
earnings growth over the short to medium term continues to be lower than recent (within the last five years) actual growth, and reflects the
impact of recent macroeconomic, policy and industry factors in mainland China. As a result of management‘s intent to continue to retain its
investment for the long term, earnings beyond the short to medium term are extrapolated into perpetuity using a long-term growth rate to
derive a terminal value, which comprises the majority of the VIU. The second component is the capital maintenance charge (‘CMC’), which is
management’s forecast of the earnings that need to be withheld in order for BoCom to meet capital requirements over the forecast period,
meaning that CMC is deducted when arriving at management’s estimate of future earnings available to ordinary shareholders. The CMC
reflects the revised capital requirements arising from revisions of the ratio of risk-weighted assets to total assets assumption. The principal
inputs to the CMC calculation include estimates of asset growth, the ratio of risk-weighted assets to total assets and the expected capital
requirements. An increase in the CMC as a result of a change to these principal inputs would reduce VIU. Additionally, management considers
other qualitative factors, to ensure that the inputs to the VIU calculation remain appropriate.

[PAGE 405]

Key assumptions in value in use calculation
We used a number of assumptions in our VIU calculation, in accordance with the requirements of IAS 36:
– Long-term profit growth rate: 3.00% (2023: 3.00%) for periods after 2028, which does not exceed forecast GDP growth in mainland China
and is similar to forecasts by external analysts.
– Long-term asset growth rate: 3.25% (2023: 3.00%) for periods after 2028, which is the rate that assets are expected to grow to achieve long-term
profit growth of 3.00%. The increase of long-term asset growth rate was supported by historical data, which is expected to continue.
– Discount rate: 8.53% (2023: 9.00%), which is based on a capital asset pricing model (‘CAPM’), using market data. The discount rate used is
within the range of 7.1% to 8.8% (2023: 7.9% to 9.7%) indicated by the CAPM, and decreased as a consequence of a market-driven
reduction in the risk-free rate.
– Expected credit losses (‘ECL’) as a percentage of loans and advances to customers: ranges from 0.74% to 0.93% (2023: 0.80% to 0.97%)
in the short to medium term, reflecting reported credit experience in mainland China. For periods after 2028, the ratio is 0.97% (2023:
0.97%), which is higher than BoCom’s average ECL as a percentage of loans and advances to customers in recent years prior to the
Covid-19 pandemic.
– Risk-weighted assets as a percentage of total assets: ranges from 62.0% to 62.5% (2023: 62.0% to 63.7%) in the short to medium term,
reflecting higher risk-weights in the short term followed by an expected reversion to recent historical levels. For periods after 2028, the ratio
is 62.0% (2023: 62.0%), which continues to be similar to BoCom’s actual results in recent years.
– Loans and advances to customers growth rate: ranges from 7.5% to 9.5% (2023: 9.0% to 10.0%) in the short to medium term, which is
similar to BoCom’s actual results in recent years. Changes in the forecast growth rate of loans and advances to customers are likewise
reflected in the forecast ECL.
– Operating income growth rate: ranges from 0.1% to 9.9% (2023: -0.4% to 9.7%) in the short to medium term, which is similar to BoCom’s
actual results in recent years, and is impacted by projections of net interest income in the short term as a consequence of recent
macroeconomic, policy and industry factors in mainland China.
– Cost-income ratio: ranges from 34.6% to 39.8% (2023: 35.5% to 39.8%) in the short to medium term. These ratios are similar to BoCom’s
actual results in recent years.
– Long-term effective tax rate: 15.0% (2023: 15.0%) for periods after 2028, which is higher than the recent historical average, and aligned to
the minimum tax rate as proposed by the OECD/Group of 20 (‘G20’) Inclusive Framework on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting.
– Capital requirements: capital adequacy ratio of 12.5% (2023: 12.5%) and tier 1 capital adequacy ratio of 9.5% (2023: 9.5%), based on
BoCom’s capital risk appetite and capital requirements respectively.
The changes in VIU would impact the carrying amount if there is an indication of further impairment (or indication that an impairment may no
longer exist or may have decreased, to the extent of impairment loss previously recognised). The following table illustrates the impact on the
carrying amount of reasonably possible changes to key assumptions used in the VIU calculation. This reflects the sensitivity of each key
assumption on its own and it is possible that more than one favourable and/or unfavourable change may occur at the same time. The selected
rates of reasonably possible changes to key assumptions are based on external analysts’ forecasts, statutory requirements and other relevant
external data sources, which can change period to period. Unless specified, favourable and unfavourable changes are consistently applied
throughout short-to-medium and long-term forecast years, based on a straight-line average of the base case assumption.
Sensitivity of the carrying amount to the key VIU assumptions
Favourable change Unfavourable change
Reversal of impairment /
VIU headroom Impairment
bps $bn bps $bn
At 31 Dec 2024
Long-term profit growth rate 55 4.0 (96) (5.4)
Long-term asset growth rate (121) 8.6 30 (2.8)
Discount rate (143) 5.4 287 (6.4)
Expected credit losses as a percentage of loans and advances to 2024 to 2028: 66 2024 to 2028: 108
customers 2029 onwards: 91 4.0 2029 onwards: 104 (4.3)
Risk-weighted assets as a percentage of total assets (132) 0.8 234 (1.7)
Loans and advances to customers growth rate (217) 3.4 340 (6.1)
Operating income growth rate 76 2.7 (81) (3.3)
Cost-income ratio (190) 0.2 380 (7.1)
Long-term effective tax rate (426) 1.6 1,000 (4.0)
Capital requirements – capital adequacy ratio — — 372 (14.3)
Capital requirements – tier 1 capital adequacy ratio — — 270 (6.7)
At 31 Dec 2023
Long-term profit growth rate 58 3.3 (79) (3.4)
Long-term asset growth rate (79) 4.5 58 (4.0)
Discount rate (110) 4.5 280 (6.1)
Expected credit losses as a percentage of loans and advances to 2023 to 2027: 78 2023 to 2027: 120
customers 2028 onwards: 91 2.9 2028 onwards: 104 (4.4)
Risk-weighted assets as a percentage of total assets (150) 0.9 216 (1.6)
Loans and advances to customers growth rate (213) 3.2 207 (2.9)
Operating income growth rate 57 2.6 (81) (2.6)
Cost-income ratio (212) 0.8 99 (2.9)
Long-term effective tax rate (426) 1.6 1,000 (3.5)
Capital requirements – capital adequacy ratio — — 215 (7.5)
Capital requirements – tier 1 capital adequacy ratio — — 248 (3.7)
Financial
statements

[PAGE 406]

Notes on the financial statements
Considering the interrelationship of the changes set out in the table above, management estimates that the reasonably possible range of VIU is
$13.5bn to $30.8bn (2023: $13.1bn to $28.8bn), acknowledging that the fair value of the Group’s investment has ranged from $6.8bn to
$11.6bn over the last five years as at the date of the impairment tests. The possible range of VIU is based on impacts set out in the table above
arising from the favourable/unfavourable change in the earnings in the short to medium term, the expected credit losses as a percentage of
loans and advances to customers, and a 50bps increase/decrease in the discount rate. All other long-term assumptions, and the basis of the
CMC have been kept unchanged when determining the reasonably possible range of the VIU.
Selected financial information of BoCom
The statutory accounting reference date of BoCom is 31 December. For the year ended 31 December 2024, HSBC included the associate’s
results on the basis of the financial statements for the 12 months ended 30 September 2024, taking into account any known changes in the
subsequent period from 1 October 2024 to 31 December 2024 that would have materially affected the results.
Selected balance sheet information of BoCom
At 30 Sep At 30 Sep
2024 2023
$m $m
Cash and balances at central banks 99,663 112,800
Due from and placements with banks and other financial institutions 122,607 100,464
Loans and advances to customers 1,128,603 1,087,613
Other financial assets 587,721 587,949
Other assets 61,086 59,215
Total assets 1,999,680 1,948,041
Due to and placements from banks and other financial institutions 326,742 292,065
Deposits from customers 1,195,590 1,216,611
Other financial liabilities 282,894 251,246
Other liabilities 38,082 36,766
Total liabilities 1,843,308 1,796,698
Total equity 156,372 151,343
Reconciliation of BoCom’s total shareholders’ equity to the carrying amount in HSBC’s consolidated financial statements
At 30 Sep
2024 2023
$m $m
Equity attributable to shareholders 154,748 149,713
Other equity instruments (23,946) (24,616)
Equity attributable to shareholders less other equity instruments 130,802 125,097
The Group's share of equity1 25,284 24,210
Impairment2 (2,917) (3,000)
Carrying amount 22,367 21,210
1 This balance includes goodwill originally arising on acquisition.
2 This balance includes the impact of foreign exchange movements on the $3bn impairment booked in the financial year ended 31 December 2023.
Selected income statement information of BoCom
For the 12 months ended 30 Sep
2024 2023
$m $m
Net interest income 23,180 23,432
Net fee and commission income 5,315 6,221
Credit and impairment losses (7,410) (8,099)
Depreciation and amortisation (2,589) (2,560)
Tax expense (835) (1,007)
Profit for the year 12,922 13,211
Other comprehensive income 1,361 686
Total comprehensive income 14,283 13,897
Dividends received from BoCom 745 736
Saudi Awwal Bank
The Group’s investment in Saudi Awwal Bank (‘SAB’) is classified as an associate. HSBC is the largest shareholder in SAB with a shareholding
of 31%. Significant influence in SAB is established via representation on the Board of Directors. Investments in associates are recognised using
the equity method of accounting in accordance with IAS 28, as described previously for BoCom.
Impairment testing
There were no indicators of impairment at 31 December 2024. The fair value of the Group’s investment in SAB of $5.7bn was above the
carrying amount of $5.0bn.

[PAGE 407]

19 Investments in subsidiaries
Main subsidiaries of HSBC Holdings1
At 31 Dec 2024
Place of HSBC’s
incorporation or interest
registration % Share class
Europe
£1 Ordinary, $0.01 Non-Cumulative Third Dollar
HSBC Bank plc England and Wales 100 Preference
HSBC UK Bank plc England and Wales 100 £1 Ordinary
HSBC Continental Europe France 99.99 €5 Actions
Asia
Hang Seng Bank Limited2,3 Hong Kong 63.12 HK$5 Ordinary
People’s Republic of
HSBC Bank (China) Company Limited China 100 CNY1 Ordinary
HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad Malaysia 100 Ordinary no par value
HSBC Life (International) Limited Bermuda 100 HK$1 Ordinary
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited Hong Kong 100 Ordinary no par value
Middle East, North Africa and Türkiye
HSBC Bank Middle East Limited United Arab Emirates 100 $1 Ordinary and $1 Preference shares
North America
HSBC Bank USA, N.A. US 100 $100 Common and $0.01 Preference
Latin America
HSBC Mexico, S.A., Institución de Banca Múltiple,
Grupo Financiero HSBC Mexico 99.99 MXN2 Ordinary
1 Main subsidiaries are either held directly or indirectly via intermediate holding companies. During 2024, we completed the sale of HSBC Bank Canada to the
Royal Bank of Canada, therefore it is no longer an indirect subsidiary of HSBC Holdings. There has been no material percentage change in HSBC’s shareholding
for its existing main subsidiaries since 2023.
2 In addition to the strategic holding disclosed above, the Group held 0.06% (2023: 0.09%) shareholding as part of its trading books.
3 Based on the latest corporate substantial shareholding notice filed with Hong Kong Exchange and Clearing Limited on 21 June 2024, the Group’s shareholding in
Hang Seng Bank Limited on 18 June 2024 was 63.04%. Movements in our shareholding since 18 June 2024 are reflected in the above table.
Details of the debt, subordinated debt and preference shares issued by the main subsidiaries to parties external to the Group are included in
Note 26 ‘Debt securities in issue’ and Note 29 ‘Subordinated liabilities’, respectively.
A list of all related undertakings is set out in Note 38. The principal countries and territories of operation are the same as the countries and
territories of incorporation except for HSBC Life (International) Limited, which operates mainly in Hong Kong.
HSBC is structured as a network of regional banks and locally incorporated regulated banking entities. Each bank is separately capitalised in
accordance with applicable prudential requirements and maintains a capital buffer consistent with the Group’s risk appetite for the relevant
country or region. HSBC’s capital management process is incorporated in the financial resource plan, which is approved by the Board.
HSBC Holdings is the primary provider of equity capital to its subsidiaries and also provides them with non-equity capital where necessary.
These investments are substantially funded by HSBC Holdings’ issuance of equity and non-equity capital, and by profit retention.
As part of its capital management process, HSBC Holdings seeks to maintain a balance between the composition of its capital and its
investment in subsidiaries. Subject to this, there is no current or foreseen impediment to HSBC Holdings’ ability to provide funding for such
investments. During 2024, consistent with the Group’s capital plan, the Group’s material subsidiaries did not experience any significant
restrictions on paying dividends or repaying loans and advances. Also, there are no foreseen restrictions envisaged with regard to planned
dividends or payments from material subsidiaries. However, the ability of subsidiaries to pay dividends or advance monies to HSBC Holdings
depends on, among other things, their respective local regulatory capital and banking requirements, exchange controls, statutory reserves, and
financial and operating performance.
The amount of guarantees by HSBC Holdings in favour of other Group entities is set out in Note 33.
Information on structured entities consolidated by HSBC where HSBC owns less than 50% of the voting rights is included in Note 20
‘Structured entities’. In each of these cases, HSBC controls and consolidates an entity when it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns
from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
Impairment testing of investments in subsidiaries
At each reporting period end, HSBC Holdings reviews investments in subsidiaries for indicators of impairment. An impairment is recognised
when the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable amount for that investment. The recoverable amount is the higher of the investment’s fair
value less costs of disposal and its VIU, in accordance with the requirements of IAS 36. The VIU is calculated by discounting management’s
cash flow projections for the investment. The cash flows represent the free cash flows based on the subsidiary’s binding capital requirements.
We used a number of assumptions in our VIU calculation, in accordance with the requirements of IAS 36:
– Management’s judgement in estimating future cash flows: The cash flow projections for each investment are based on the latest approved
plans, which include forecast capital available for distribution based on the capital requirements of the subsidiary, taking into account
minimum and core capital requirements and factoring in reasonably possible uncertainties. For the impairment test as at 31 December 2024,
cash flow projections until the end of 2029 were considered in line with our internal planning horizon. Our cash flow projections include
known and observable climate-related opportunities and costs associated with our sustainable products and operating model.
– Long-term growth rates: The long-term growth rate is used to extrapolate the free cash flows in perpetuity because of the long-term
perspective of the legal entity. The growth rate reflects long-term inflation for the country or territory within which the investment operates.
Financial
statements

[PAGE 408]

Notes on the financial statements
– Discount rates: The rate used to discount the cash flows is based on the cost of capital assigned to each investment, which is derived using
a CAPM and market implied cost of equity. CAPM depends on a number of inputs reflecting financial and economic variables, including the
risk-free rate and a premium to reflect the inherent risk of the business being evaluated. These variables are based on the market’s
assessment of the economic variables and management’s judgement. The discount rates for each investment are refined to reflect the
rates of inflation for the countries or territories within which the investment operates. In addition, for the purposes of testing investments
for impairment, management supplements this process by comparing the discount rates derived using the internally generated CAPM, with
cost of capital rates produced by external sources for businesses operating in similar markets. The impacts from climate risk are included to
the extent that they are observable in discount rates and asset prices.
As at 31 December 2024, the carrying amount of HSBC Holdings’ investments in subsidiaries was $152.3bn (2023: $159.5bn). The year-on-year
reduction was predominantly due to the recognition of an $11.4bn impairment of HSBC Holdings’ investment in HSBC Overseas Holdings (UK)
Limited.
The recoverable amount of HSBC Overseas Holdings (UK) Limited is assessed as the aggregate of the recoverable amounts of its subsidiaries.
During the year HSBC Overseas Holdings (UK) Limited sold its stake in its direct subsidiary HSBC Bank Canada to Royal Bank of Canada, and
transferred HSBC Private Bank (Suisse) SA, its indirect subsidiary (via HSBC Private Banking Holdings (Suisse) SA), to HSBC Bank plc.
Following these disposals HSBC Overseas Holdings (UK) Limited paid $12.1bn in dividend income to HSBC Holdings, which mainly drove the
recognition of an $11.4bn impairment in its investment in HSBC Overseas Holdings (UK) Limited, offset by a higher recoverable amount of
HSBC Overseas Holdings (UK) Limited’s principal remaining subsidiary as at 31 December 2024, HSBC North America Holdings Inc, driven by
higher projected profits and lower projected capital requirements. As at 31 December 2024, HSBC Holdings had recognised for HSBC
Overseas Holdings (UK) Limited a cumulative impairment of $21.6bn (2023: $10.2bn), and a carrying amount of $14.0bn (2023: $25.8bn).
Impairment test results
Recoverable Discount Long-term
Investments amount rate growth rate
$m % %
HSBC North America Holdings Inc.
At 31 Dec 2024 13,264 11.00 2.25
At 31 Dec 2023 12,756 10.50 2.17
Sensitivities of key assumptions in calculating VIU
At 31 December 2024, the recoverable amount of HSBC Overseas Holdings (UK) Limited remained sensitive to reasonably possible changes in
key assumptions impacting its principal subsidiary, HSBC North America Holdings Inc.
In making an estimate of reasonably possible changes to assumptions, management considers the available evidence in respect of each input
to the model. These include the external range of observable discount rates, historical performance against forecast, and risks attached to the
key assumptions underlying cash flow.
The following table presents a summary of the key assumptions underlying the most sensitive inputs to the model for HSBC North America
Holdings Inc., the key risks attached to each, and details of a reasonably possible change to assumptions where, in the opinion of management,
these could result in a change in VIU.
Reasonably possible changes in key assumptions
Reasonably possible
Input Key assumptions Associated risks change
Investment
HSBC North America Holdings Inc. Free cash flows projections – Level of interest rates and – Strategic actions – Free cash flow
(subsidiary of HSBC Overseas yield curves. relating to revenue and projections decrease
Holdings (UK) Limited) – Competitors’ positions costs are not achieved. by 10%.
within the market.
Discount rate – Discount rate used is a – External evidence arises – Discount rate
reasonable estimate of a to suggest that the rate decreases by 1%.
suitable market rate for used is not appropriate – Discount rate increases
the profile of the to the business. by 1%.
business.
Sensitivity of VIU to reasonably possible changes in key assumptions
In $bn (unless otherwise stated) At 31 Dec 2024 At 31 Dec 2023
HSBC North America Holdings Inc.
VIU 13.3 12.8
Impact on VIU
100bps decrease in the discount rate – single variable1 1.5 1.6
100bps increase in the discount rate – single variable1 (1.2) (1.2)
10% decrease in forecast profitability – single variable1 (1.3) (1.3)
1 The recoverable amount of HSBC Overseas Holdings (UK) Limited represents the aggregate of recoverable amounts of the underlying subsidiaries. Single
variable sensitivity analysis on a single subsidiary may therefore not be representative of the aggregate impact of the change in the variable.

[PAGE 409]

Subsidiaries with significant non-controlling interests
2024 2023
Hang Seng Bank Limited
Proportion of ownership interests and voting rights held by non-controlling interests (%)1 36.88 37.86
Place of business Hong Kong Hong Kong
$m $m
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 905 889
Accumulated non-controlling interests of the subsidiary 6,879 6,877
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 620 490
Summarised financial information:
– total assets 229,069 214,321
– total liabilities 208,908 194,621
– net operating income before changes in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges 5,249 5,210
– profit for the year 2,434 2,356
– total comprehensive income for the year 2,482 2,723
1 This includes the Group’s shareholding held under trading books 0.06% (2023: 0.09%).
20 Structured entities
HSBC is mainly involved with both consolidated and unconsolidated structured entities through the securitisation of financial assets, conduits
and investment funds, established either by HSBC or a third party.
Consolidated structured entities
Total assets of HSBC’s consolidated structured entities, split by entity type
Conduits Securitisations HSBC managed funds Other Total
$bn $bn $bn $bn $bn
At 31 Dec 2024 2.4 7.0 7.2 1.8 18.4
At 31 Dec 2023 3.6 7.8 5.5 8.2 25.1
Conduits
HSBC has established and manages two types of conduits: securities investment conduits (‘SICs’) and multi-seller conduits.
Securities investment conduits
The SICs purchase highly rated ABSs to facilitate tailored investment opportunities.
– At 31 December 2024, Solitaire, HSBC’s principal SIC, held $0.7bn of ABSs (2023: $1.0bn). It is currently funded entirely by commercial
paper (‘CP’) issued to HSBC. At 31 December 2024, HSBC held $1.0bn of CP (2023: $1.3bn).
Multi-seller conduit
HSBC’s multi-seller conduit was established to provide access to flexible market-based sources of finance for its clients. Currently, HSBC bears
risk equal to the transaction-specific facility offered to the multi-seller conduit, amounting to $5.2bn at 31 December 2024 (2023: $6.1bn). First
loss protection is provided by the originator of the assets, and not by HSBC, through transaction-specific credit enhancements. A layer of loss
protection is provided by HSBC in the form of a programme-wide enhancement facility.
Securitisations
HSBC uses structured entities to securitise customer loans and advances it originates in order to diversify its sources of funding for asset
origination and capital efficiency purposes. The loans and advances are transferred by HSBC to the structured entities for cash or synthetically,
and the structured entities issue debt securities to investors. Where synthetic securitisations are used, the credit risk associated with the loan
portfolio of assets is transferred to the structured entities through loan portfolio financial guarantees.
HSBC managed funds
HSBC has established a number of money market and non-money market funds. Where it is deemed to be acting as principal rather than agent
in its role as investment manager, HSBC controls these funds.
Other
HSBC has entered into a number of transactions in the normal course of business, which include asset and structured finance transactions
where it has control of the structured entity. In addition, HSBC is deemed to control a number of third-party managed funds through its
involvement as a principal in the funds.
Financial
statements

[PAGE 410]

Notes on the financial statements
Unconsolidated structured entities
The term ‘unconsolidated structured entities’ refers to all structured entities not controlled by HSBC. The Group enters into transactions with
unconsolidated structured entities in the normal course of business to facilitate customer transactions and for specific investment
opportunities.
Nature and risks associated with HSBC interests in unconsolidated structured entities
HSBC managed Non-HSBC
Total asset values of the entities ($m) Securitisations funds managed funds Other Total
0–500 167 344 1,215 46 1,772
500–2,000 2 75 911 2 990
2,000–5,000 — 30 348 1 379
5,000–25,000 — 21 212 — 233
25,000+ — 2 33 — 35
Number of entities at 31 Dec 2024 169 472 2,719 49 3,409
$bn $bn $bn $bn $bn
Total assets in relation to HSBC’s interests in the unconsolidated
structured entities 5.4 12.1 25.4 2.4 45.3
– trading assets — 0.1 — — 0.1
– financial assets designated and otherwise mandatorily
measured at fair value through profit or loss — 7.8 22.2 — 30.0
– loans and advances to customers 5.4 — 0.7 1.5 7.6
– financial investments — 0.2 0.4 — 0.6
– assets held for sale — 4.0 2.1 — 6.1
– other assets — — — 0.9 0.9
Total liabilities in relation to HSBC’s interests in the
unconsolidated structured entities — — — 0.4 0.4
– other liabilities — — — 0.4 0.4
Other off-balance sheet commitments — 1.0 8.1 1.3 10.4
HSBC’s maximum exposure at 31 Dec 2024 5.4 13.1 33.5 3.3 55.3
Total asset values of the entities ($m)
0–500 120 337 1,271 42 1,770
500–2,000 4 96 1,069 3 1,172
2,000–5,000 — 39 418 — 457
5,000–25,000 — 24 217 — 241
25,000+ — 3 11 — 14
Number of entities at 31 Dec 2023 124 499 2,986 45 3,654
$bn $bn $bn $bn $bn
Total assets in relation to HSBC’s interests in the unconsolidated
structured entities 3.2 13.9 20.7 3.3 41.1
– trading assets — 0.6 — — 0.6
– financial assets designated and otherwise mandatorily
measured at fair value through profit or loss — 12.6 19.7 — 32.3
– loans and advances to customers 3.2 — 0.6 2.5 6.3
– financial investments — 0.7 0.4 — 1.1
– other assets — — — 0.8 0.8
Total liabilities in relation to HSBC’s interests in the
unconsolidated structured entities — — — 0.3 0.3
– other liabilities — — — 0.3 0.3
Other off-balance sheet commitments 0.1 1.9 5.0 1.2 8.2
HSBC’s maximum exposure at 31 Dec 2023 3.3 15.8 25.7 4.2 49.0
The maximum exposure to loss from HSBC’s interests in unconsolidated structured entities represents the maximum loss it could incur as a
result of its involvement with these entities regardless of the probability of the loss being incurred.
– For commitments, guarantees and written credit default swaps, the maximum exposure to loss is the notional amount of potential future
losses.
– For retained and purchased investments and loans to unconsolidated structured entities, the maximum exposure to loss is the carrying
amount of these interests at the balance sheet reporting date.
The maximum exposure to loss is stated gross of the effects of hedging and collateral arrangements that HSBC has entered into in order to
mitigate the Group’s exposure to loss.
Securitisations
HSBC has interests in unconsolidated securitisation vehicles through holding notes issued by these entities. In addition, HSBC has investments
in ABSs issued by third-party structured entities.
HSBC managed funds
HSBC establishes and manages money market funds and non-money market investment funds to provide customers with investment
opportunities. Further information on funds under management is provided on page 107.
HSBC, as fund manager, may be entitled to receive management and performance fees based on the assets under management. HSBC may
also retain units in these funds.

[PAGE 411]

Non-HSBC managed funds
HSBC purchases and holds units of third-party managed funds in order to facilitate business and meet customer needs.
Other
HSBC has established structured entities in the normal course of business, such as structured credit transactions for customers, to provide
finance to public and private sector infrastructure projects, and for asset and structured finance transactions.
In addition to the interests disclosed above, HSBC enters into derivative contracts, reverse repos and stock borrowing transactions with
structured entities. These interests arise in the normal course of business for the facilitation of third-party transactions and risk management
solutions.
HSBC sponsored structured entities
The amount of assets transferred to and income received from such sponsored structured entities during 2024 and 2023 was not significant.
21 Goodwill and intangible assets
2024 2023
$m $m
Goodwill 4,118 4,323
Other intangible assets1 8,266 8,164
At 31 Dec 12,384 12,487
1 Included within other intangible assets is internally generated software with a net carrying amount of $7,100m (2023: $6,895m). During the year, capitalisation
of internally generated software was $2,476m (2023: $2,306m), impairment was $67m (2023: reversal impairment of $285m) and amortisation was $1,995m
(2023: $1,877m).
Movement analysis of goodwill
2024 2023
$m $m
Gross amount
At 1 Jan 19,560 18,965
Exchange differences (962) 523
Reclassified to held for sale and additions1 28 73
Other — (1)
At 31 Dec 18,626 19,560
Accumulated impairment losses
At 1 Jan (15,237) (14,809)
Exchange differences 716 (428)
Reclassified to held for sale1 13 —
At 31 Dec (14,508) (15,237)
Net carrying amount at 31 Dec 4,118 4,323
1 Includes goodwill arising from acquisition of Silkroad, offset by goodwill reclassified to held for sale associated with sales of HSBC Bank Armenia, private
banking business in Germany, and planned sale of HSBC Assurances Vie (France). For further details, see Note 23.
Goodwill
Impairment testing
The Group’s impairment test in respect of goodwill allocated to each cash-generating unit (‘CGU’) is performed at 1 October each year. A
review for indicators of impairment is undertaken at each subsequent quarter-end and at 31 December 2024. No indicators of impairment were
identified as part of these reviews.
Basis of the recoverable amount
The recoverable amount of all CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated was equal to its value in use (‘VIU’) at each respective testing date.
The VIU is calculated by discounting management’s cash flow projections for the CGU. The key assumptions used in the VIU calculation for
each individually significant CGU that is not impaired are discussed below.
Key assumptions in VIU calculation – significant CGUs at 1 October 20241
Growth Growth
rate rate
Carrying Value in beyond Carrying Value in beyond initial
amount at of which use at Discount initial amount at of which use at Discount cash flow
1 Oct 2024 goodwill 1 Oct 2024 rate cash flow 1 Oct 2023 goodwill 1 Oct 2023 rate projections
$m $m $m % % $m $m $m % %
HSBC UK
Bank plc –
WPB 12,785 2,843 27,118 10.6 2.0 11,167 2,597 27,933 10.4 2.0
1 For impacts arising from the revised organisational structure effective from 1 January 2025, see Note 1.2(a).
At 1 October 2024, aggregate goodwill of $1,493m (1 October 2023: $1,599m) had been allocated to CGUs that were not considered
individually significant. The Group’s CGUs do not carry on their balance sheets any significant intangible assets with indefinite useful lives, other
than goodwill.
Financial
statements

[PAGE 412]

Notes on the financial statements
Management’s judgement in estimating the cash flows of a CGU
The Group does not consider there to be a significant risk of a material adjustment to the carrying amount of goodwill in the next financial year,
but does consider this to be an area that is inherently judgemental. The cash flow projections for each CGU are based on forecast profitability
plans approved by the Board and minimum capital levels required to support the business operations of a CGU. The Board challenges and
endorses planning assumptions in light of internal capital allocation decisions necessary to support our strategy, current market conditions and
macroeconomic outlook. For the 1 October 2024 impairment test, cash flow projections until the end of 2029 were considered, in line with our
internal planning horizon. Key assumptions underlying cash flow projections reflect management’s outlook on interest rates and inflation, as
well as business strategy, including the scale of investment in technology and automation. Our cash flow projections include known and
observable climate-related opportunities and costs associated with our sustainable products and operating model. As required by IFRS
Accounting Standards, estimates of future cash flows exclude estimated cash inflows or outflows that are expected to arise from restructuring
initiatives before an entity has a constructive obligation to carry out the plan, and would therefore have recognised a provision for restructuring
costs.
Discount rate
The rate used to discount the cash flows is based on the cost of equity assigned to each CGU, which is derived using a capital asset pricing
model (‘CAPM’) and market implied cost of equity. CAPM depends on a number of inputs reflecting financial and economic variables, including
the risk-free rate and a premium to reflect the inherent risk of the business being evaluated. These variables are based on the market’s
assessment of the economic variables and management’s judgement. The discount rates for each CGU are refined to reflect the rates of
inflation for the countries within which the CGU operates. In addition, for the purposes of testing goodwill for impairment, management
supplements this process by comparing the discount rates derived using the internally generated CAPM, with the cost of equity rates produced
by external sources for businesses operating in similar markets. The impacts of climate risk are included to the extent that they are observable
in discount rates and asset prices.
Long-term growth rate
The long-term growth rate is used to extrapolate the cash flows in perpetuity because of the long-term perspective within the Group of
business units making up the CGUs. These growth rates reflect inflation for the countries within which the CGU operates or from which it
derives revenue.
Sensitivities of key assumptions in calculating VIU
At 1 October 2024, given the extent by which VIU exceeds carrying amount, the HSBC UK WPB CGU was not sensitive to reasonably possible
adverse changes in key assumptions supporting the recoverable amount. In making an estimate of reasonably possible changes to
assumptions, management considers the available evidence in respect of each input to the VIU calculation, such as the external range of
discount rates observable, historical performance against forecast and risks attaching to the key assumptions underlying cash flow projections.
None of the remaining CGUs are individually significant.
Other intangible assets
Impairment testing
Impairment of other intangible assets is assessed in accordance with our policy explained in Note 1.2(n) by comparing the net carrying amount
of CGUs containing intangible assets with their recoverable amounts. Recoverable amounts are determined by calculating an estimated VIU or
fair value, as appropriate, for each CGU. No significant impairment was recognised during the year.
Key assumptions in VIU calculation
The Group does not consider there to be a significant risk of a material adjustment to the carrying amount of other intangible assets in the next
financial year, but does consider this to be an area that is inherently judgemental. We used a number of assumptions in our VIU calculation, in
accordance with the requirements of IAS 36:
– Management’s judgement in estimating future cash flows: We considered past business performance, current market conditions and our
macroeconomic outlook to estimate future earnings. As required by IFRS Accounting Standards, estimates of future cash flows exclude
estimated cash inflows or outflows that are expected to arise from restructuring initiatives before an entity has a constructive obligation to
carry out the plan, and would therefore have recognised a provision for restructuring costs. For some businesses, this means that the
benefit of certain strategic actions may not be included in the impairment assessment, including capital releases. Our cash flow projections
include known and observable climate-related opportunities and costs associated with our sustainable products and operating model.
– Long-term growth rates: The long-term growth rate is used to extrapolate the cash flows in perpetuity because of the long-term perspective
of the businesses within the Group.
– Discount rates: Rates are based on a combination of CAPM and market-implied calculations considering market data for the businesses and
geographies in which the Group operates. The impacts of climate risk are included to the extent that they are observable in discount rates
and asset prices.
Sensitivity of estimates relating to non-financial assets
As explained in Note 1.2(a), estimates of future cash flows for CGUs are made in the review of goodwill and non-financial assets for
impairment. Non-financial assets include other intangible assets shown above, and owned property, plant and equipment and right-of-use
assets (see Note 22). The most significant sources of estimation uncertainty are in respect of the goodwill balances disclosed above. There are
no non-financial asset balances relating to individual CGUs which involve estimation uncertainty that represents a significant risk of resulting in
a material adjustment to the results and financial position of the Group within the next financial year.
Non-financial assets are widely distributed across CGUs within the legal entities of the Group, including Corporate Centre assets that cannot be
allocated to CGUs and are therefore tested for impairment at consolidated level. The recoverable amounts of other intangible assets, owned
property, plant and equipment, and right-of-use assets cannot be lower than individual asset fair values less costs to dispose, where relevant.
At 31 December 2024 none of the CGUs were sensitive to reasonably possible adverse changes in key assumptions supporting the
recoverable amount. In making an estimate of reasonably possible changes to assumptions, management considers the available evidence in
respect of each input to the VIU calculation, such as the external range of discount rates observable, historical performance against forecast
and risks attaching to the key assumptions underlying cash flow projections.

[PAGE 413]

22 Prepayments, accrued income and other assets
2024 2023
$m $m
Prepayments and accrued income 13,781 13,854
Settlement accounts and items in course of collection from other banks 19,050 39,195
Cash collateral and margin receivables 59,488 57,058
Bullion 16,841 13,701
Endorsements and acceptances 8,093 7,939
Insurance contract assets (Note 4) 132 252
Reinsurance contract assets 4,798 4,728
Employee benefit assets (Note 5) 7,548 7,750
Right-of-use assets 2,205 2,456
Owned property, plant and equipment 9,407 10,478
Other accounts 11,397 14,186
At 31 Dec1 152,740 171,597
1 Prepayments, accrued income and other assets include $109,336m (2023: $129,203m) of financial assets, the majority of which are measured at amortised
cost.
23 Assets held for sale, liabilities of disposal groups held for sale and
business acquisitions
2024 2023
$m $m
Held for sale at 31 Dec
Disposal groups 27,126 115,836
Unallocated impairment losses1 (31) (1,975)
Non-current assets held for sale 139 273
Assets held for sale 27,234 114,134
Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale 29,011 108,406
1 This represents impairment losses in excess of the carrying value of the non-current assets, excluded from the measurement scope of IFRS 5.
Disposal groups
France retail banking operations
On 1 January 2024, HSBC Continental Europe completed the sale of its retail banking business in France to CCF, a subsidiary of Promontoria
MMB SAS (‘My Money Group’). The sale also included HSBC Continental Europe’s 100% ownership interest in HSBC SFH (France) and its 3%
ownership interest in Crédit Logement.
Upon completion and in accordance with the terms of the sale, HSBC Continental Europe received a €0.1bn ($0.1bn) profit participation interest
in the ultimate holding company of My Money Group. The associated impacts on initial recognition of this stake at fair value were recognised as
part of the pre-tax loss on disposal in 2023, upon the reclassification of the disposal group as held for sale. In accordance with the terms of the
sale, HSBC Continental Europe retained a portfolio of €7.1bn ($7.4bn) at the time of the sale, consisting of home and certain other loans, and
the CCF brand, which it licensed to the buyer under a long-term licence agreement. Additionally, HSBC Continental Europe’s subsidiaries,
HSBC Assurances Vie (France) and HSBC Global Asset Management (France), entered into distribution agreements with the buyer.
The customer lending balances and associated income statement impacts of the portfolio of retained loans, together with the profit
participation interest and the licence agreement of the CCF brand, were reclassified from WPB to Corporate Centre, with effect from 1 January
2024.
During the fourth quarter of 2024, we began the process of marketing the retained home and other loan portfolio for sale, which had a carrying
value of €6.7bn ($6.9bn) at 31 December 2024. As a result, we reclassified the portfolio to a hold-to-collect-and-sell business model from
1 January 2025 and will measure it prospectively from the first quarter of 2025 at fair value through other comprehensive income. We expect to
recognise an estimated $1bn fair value pre-tax loss in other comprehensive income on the remeasurement of the financial instruments. The
valuation of this portfolio of loans may be substantially different in the event of a sale due to entity and deal-specific factors, including funding
costs and the value of customer relationships. In the event of a sale, upon completion, the cumulative fair value changes recognised through
other comprehensive income, which would reflect the terms of an agreed sale, would reclassify to the income statement. In December 2024,
we entered into non-qualifying economic hedges, hedging interest rate risk on the portfolio and recognised a $0.1bn mark-to-market gain year-
to-date.
Canada banking business
On 28 March 2024, HSBC Overseas Holdings (UK) Limited, a direct subsidiary of HSBC Holdings plc, completed the sale of HSBC Bank Canada
to the Royal Bank of Canada.
The completion of the transaction resulted in a gain on sale of $4.8bn, inclusive of the recycling of $0.6bn in foreign currency translation reserve
losses and $0.4bn in other reserves losses. The gain on sale also included $0.3bn in fair value gains recognised on the related foreign exchange
hedges in the first quarter of 2024. There was no tax on the gain recognised at completion due to the substantial shareholding exemption rule
in the UK.
Following the completion of this transaction, the Board approved a special dividend of $0.21 per share, which was paid in June 2024 alongside
the first interim dividend.
Financial
statements

[PAGE 414]

Notes on the financial statements
Argentina business
On 6 December 2024, HSBC Latin America B.V. completed the sale of its business in Argentina to Grupo Financiero Galicia (‘Galicia‘).
Galicia acquired all of HSBC Argentina’s business covering banking, asset management and insurance, together with $100m of subordinated
debt issued by HSBC Argentina and held by HSBC Latin America Holdings (UK) Limited for a base consideration of $550m. The consideration
was adjusted for the results of the business and fair value gains or losses on HSBC Argentina’s securities portfolios during the period between
31 December 2023 and 30 November 2024. HSBC received the purchase consideration in a combination of cash and Galicia’s American
Depositary Receipts (‘ADRs‘), with ADRs representing less than a 10% economic interest in Galicia. At 31 December 2024, the fair value of the
ADRs received and held as fair value through profit and loss was $0.7bn.
For the year ended 31 December 2024, we recognised a $1.0bn pre-tax loss and we recycled $5.2bn foreign currency reserve and other
reserve losses to the income statement on completion. There was no tax deduction on the loss recognised.
Other disposals
On 30 May 2024, HSBC Europe BV, a wholly-owned subsidiary of HSBC Bank plc, completed the sale of HSBC Bank (RR) (Limited Liability
Company) to Expobank. Foreign currency translation reserve losses of $0.1bn were recognised in the income statement upon completion.
On 6 July 2024, The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited (acting through its Mauritius branch) completed the sale of its
Wealth and Personal Banking business in Mauritius to Absa Bank (Mauritius) Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Absa Group Limited. The
financial impact of the sale was not significant for the Group.
On 23 September 2024, HSBC Continental Europe, a wholly owned subsidiary of HSBC Bank plc, reached an agreement to sell its private
banking business in Germany to BNP Paribas and the disposal group met the held for sale criteria at 31 December 2024. This sale, which
remains subject to works council consultation, is expected to be completed in the second half of 2025. The sale is expected to generate an
estimated pre-tax gain on disposal of $0.2bn, which will be recognised on completion.
On 25 September 2024, HSBC reached an agreement to transfer its business in South Africa to local lender FirstRand Bank Ltd and the
disposal group met the held for sale criteria at 31 December 2024. The transaction, which is subject to regulatory and governmental approvals,
is expected to complete in the second half of 2025. At closing, cumulative foreign currency translation reserves and other reserves will recycle
to the income statement. At 31 December 2024, foreign currency translation reserve and other reserve losses stood at $0.2bn.
On 29 November 2024, HSBC Europe BV completed the sale of HSBC Bank Armenia to Ardshinbank with a year-to-date loss of $0.1bn
recognised.
On 20 December 2024, HSBC Continental Europe signed a Memorandum of Understanding (‘MoU’) for the planned sale of its French life
insurance business, HSBC Assurances Vie (France), to Matmut Société d’Assurance Mutuelle. The transaction, which is subject to regulatory
approvals and employee consultation, is expected to complete in the second half of 2025. The disposal group met the held for sale criteria at
31 December 2024, resulting in the reclassification of $24.2bn in assets and $23.4bn in liabilities to held for sale, and the recognition of an
immaterial loss on disposal. The total pre-tax loss at completion is estimated at $0.2bn inclusive of migration costs and the recycling of
cumulative foreign currency translation reserves, insurance finance reserves and other reserves which stood at a net loss of $0.1bn as at
31 December 2024.
At 31 December 2024, the major classes of assets and associated liabilities of disposal groups held for sale, excluding allocated impairment
losses, were as follows:
French Life German Private
Insurance Business Banking Business South Africa1 Other Total
$m $m $m $m $m
Assets of disposal groups held for sale
Cash and balances at central banks — 1,896 — — 1,896
Financial assets designated and otherwise mandatorily
measured at fair value through profit or loss 14,560 — — — 14,560
Derivatives 26 — 10 — 36
Loans and advances to banks 144 — — — 144
Loans and advances to customers — 309 656 — 965
Financial investments2 8,500 — — — 8,500
Goodwill — 5 — — 5
Prepayments, accrued income and other assets 992 21 7 — 1,020
Total assets at 31 Dec 2024 24,222 2,231 673 — 27,126
Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale
Customer accounts — 2,085 3,294 20 5,399
Financial liabilities designated at fair value 11 119 — — 130
Derivatives — — 19 — 19
Insurance contract liabilities 21,811 — — — 21,811
Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities 1,598 22 32 — 1,652
Total liabilities at 31 Dec 2024 23,420 2,226 3,345 20 29,011
Expected date of completion Second half of 2025 Second half of 2025 Second half of 2025
GBM and
Operating segment WPB WPB Corporate Centre
1 Under the financial terms of the sale of our South Africa business, HSBC Bank plc will transfer the business with a net asset value of $0.7bn for a book value
less any provisions. The purchase price will be satisfied by the transfer of agreed liabilities of $3.3bn. Any required increase to the net asset value of the
business to achieve this will be satisfied by the inclusion of additional cash. Based upon the net liabilities of the disposal group at 31 December 2024, HSBC
would be expected to include a cash contribution of $2.6bn.
2 Represents financial investments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income.

[PAGE 415]

At 31 December 2023, the major classes of assets and associated liabilities of disposal groups held for sale, excluding allocated impairment
losses, were as follows:
Retail banking
Canada operations in France Other Total
$m $m $m $m
Assets of disposal groups held for sale
Cash and balances at central banks 5,370 226 — 5,596
Trading assets 2,465 — — 2,465
Financial assets designated and otherwise mandatorily measured at fair value through
profit or loss 15 49 — 64
Derivatives 528 — — 528
Loans and advances to banks 154 10,333 — 10,487
Loans and advances to customers 56,129 16,902 254 73,285
Reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading 2,723 — — 2,723
Financial investments1 16,978 33 — 17,011
Goodwill 225 — — 225
Prepayments, accrued income and other assets 3,318 132 2 3,452
Total assets at 31 Dec 2023 87,905 27,675 256 115,836
Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale
Trading liabilities 1,417 — — 1,417
Deposits by banks 78 — — 78
Customer accounts 63,001 22,307 642 85,950
Repurchase agreements – non-trading 2,768 — — 2,768
Financial liabilities designated at fair value — 2,370 — 2,370
Derivatives 608 7 — 615
Debt securities in issue 7,707 1,377 — 9,084
Subordinated liabilities 8 — — 8
Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities 5,916 196 4 6,116
Total liabilities at 31 Dec 2023 81,503 26,257 646 108,406
Date of completion 28 March 2024 1 January 2024
All global
Operating segment businesses WPB
1 Includes financial investments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income of $9.4bn and debt instruments measured at amortised cost of
$7.6bn.
Business acquisitions
In October 2023, HSBC Global Asset Management Singapore Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking
Corporation Limited, entered into an agreement to acquire 100% of the shares of Silkroad Property Partners Pte Ltd (‘Silkroad’) and for HSBC
Global Asset Management Limited to acquire Silkroad’s affiliated General Partner entities. Silkroad is a Singapore headquartered Asia-Pacific-
focused, real estate investment manager. The acquisition was completed on 31 January 2024.
In October 2023, HSBC Bank (China) Company Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation
Limited, entered into an agreement to acquire Citibank China’s retail wealth management portfolio in mainland China. The portfolio comprises
assets under management and deposits and the associated wealth customers. The acquisition was completed on 7 June 2024.
The financial impact of these business acquisitions was not significant for the Group.
24 Trading liabilities
2024 2023
$m $m
Deposits by banks1 7,671 6,779
Customer accounts1 10,709 8,955
Other debt securities in issue (Note 26) 73 27
Other liabilities – net short positions in securities 47,529 57,389
At 31 Dec 65,982 73,150
1 ‘Deposits by banks’ and ‘Customer accounts’ include repos, stock lending and other amounts.
Financial
statements

[PAGE 416]

Notes on the financial statements
25 Financial liabilities designated at fair value
HSBC
2024 2023
$m $m
Deposits by banks and customer accounts1 23,773 21,043
Liabilities to customers under investment contracts 5,931 5,103
Debt securities in issue (Note 26) 99,706 103,803
Subordinated liabilities (Note 29) 9,317 11,477
At 31 Dec 138,727 141,426
1 Structured deposits placed at HSBC Bank USA are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, a US government agency, up to $250,000 per
depositor.
The carrying amount of financial liabilities designated at fair value was $4,365m less than the contractual amount at maturity (2023: $4,421m
less). The cumulative amount of change in fair value attributable to changes in credit risk was a loss of $1,655m (2023: loss of $1,286m).
HSBC Holdings
2024 2023
$m $m
Debt securities in issue (Note 26) 33,268 35,189
Subordinated liabilities (Note 29) 8,314 8,449
At 31 Dec 41,582 43,638
The carrying amount of financial liabilities designated at fair value was $17m less than the contractual amount at maturity (2023: $246m less).
The cumulative amount of change in fair value attributable to changes in credit risk was a loss of $540m (2023: $682m).
26 Debt securities in issue
HSBC
2024 2023
$m $m
Bonds and medium-term notes 163,903 160,632
Other debt securities in issue 41,661 37,115
Total debt securities in issue 205,564 197,747
Included within:
– trading liabilities (Note 24) (73) (27)
– financial liabilities designated at fair value (Note 25) (99,706) (103,803)
At 31 Dec 105,785 93,917
HSBC Holdings
2024 2023
$m $m
Debt securities 97,588 100,428
Included within:
– financial liabilities designated at fair value (Note 25) (33,268) (35,189)
At 31 Dec 64,320 65,239
27 Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities
2024 2023
$m $m
Accruals and deferred income 16,277 16,814
Settlement accounts and items in course of transmission to other banks 24,692 35,718
Cash collateral and margin payables 58,040 56,832
Endorsements and acceptances 8,102 7,911
Employee benefit liabilities (Note 5) 1,017 1,160
Reinsurance contract liabilities 701 819
Lease liabilities 2,459 2,813
Other liabilities 19,052 21,834
At 31 Dec1 130,340 143,901
1 Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities include $122,051m (2023: $136,696m) of financial liabilities, the majority of which are measured at amortised
cost.

[PAGE 417]

28 Provisions
Legal
proceedings
Restructuring and regulatory Customer Other
costs matters remediation provisions Total
$m $m $m $m $m
Provisions (excluding contractual commitments)
At 1 Jan 2024 284 380 130 420 1,214
Additions 181 205 36 203 625
Amounts utilised (193) (228) (48) (105) (574)
Unused amounts reversed (63) (63) (35) (82) (243)
Exchange and other movements (10) 1 2 21 14
At 31 Dec 2024 199 295 85 457 1,036
Contractual commitments1
At 1 Jan 2024 527
Net change in expected credit loss provision and other movements 161
At 31 Dec 2024 688
Total provisions
At 31 Dec 2023 1,741
At 31 Dec 2024 1,724
Provisions (excluding contractual commitments)
At 1 Jan 2023 445 409 195 397 1,446
Additions 255 236 37 170 698
Amounts utilised (288) (231) (69) (68) (656)
Unused amounts reversed (149) (30) (41) (95) (315)
Exchange and other movements 21 (4) 8 16 41
At 31 Dec 2023 284 380 130 420 1,214
Contractual commitments1
At 1 Jan 2023 512
Net change in expected credit loss provision and other movements 15
At 31 Dec 2023 527
Total provisions
At 31 Dec 2022 1,958
At 31 Dec 2023 1,741
1 Contractual commitments include the expected credit loss provision in relation to off-balance sheet financial guarantee contracts and commitments where
HSBC has become party to an irrevocable commitment, as defined under IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’; and provisions for performance and other guarantee
contracts.
Further details of ‘Legal proceedings and regulatory matters’ are set out in Note 35. Legal proceedings include civil court, arbitration or tribunal
proceedings brought against HSBC companies (whether by way of claim or counterclaim); or civil disputes that may, if not settled, result in
court, arbitration or tribunal proceedings. ‘Regulatory matters’ refers to investigations, reviews and other actions carried out by, or in response
to, the actions of regulators or law enforcement agencies in connection with alleged wrongdoing by HSBC.
Customer remediation refers to HSBC’s activities to compensate customers for losses or damages associated with a failure to comply with
regulations or to treat customers fairly. Customer remediation is often initiated by HSBC in response to customer complaints and/or industry
developments in sales practices, and is not necessarily initiated by regulatory action.
For further details of the impact of IFRS 9 on undrawn loan commitments and financial guarantees, presented in ‘Contractual commitments’,
see Note 33. Further analysis of the movement in the expected credit loss provision is disclosed within the ‘Reconciliation of changes in gross
carrying/nominal amount and allowances for loans and advances to banks and customers including loan commitments and financial guarantees‘
table on page 161.
Brazil PIS and COFINS tax matters
Beginning in the late 1990s, HSBC Bank Brasil S.A. – Banco Múltiplo (‘HSBC Brazil’) and other financial services firms brought legal proceedings
in Brazil challenging the assessment of PIS and COFINS taxes, which are federal taxes imposed on gross revenues earned by legal entities in
Brazil. The Supreme Court of Brazil selected three cases – one involving an insurer, in 2007, and two involving other banks, in 2011 – to set
standards that would apply to all of these proceedings. In June 2023, the court ruled against the financial services firms in all three cases. The
standards set by the court in this ruling have not yet been applied to HSBC Brazil’s legacy cases, liability for which remained with HSBC after
the sale of HSBC’s operations in Brazil to Bradesco in 2016. There are many factors that may affect the range of outcomes and any resulting
financial impact for HSBC. Based upon the information currently available, a provision was recognised in respect of one legacy case. The
remaining additional tax liability subject to challenge on all legacy PIS and COFINS cases is up to $0.4bn. As at 31 December 2024, no provision
has been booked for this amount.
Financial
statements

[PAGE 418]

Notes on the financial statements
29 Subordinated liabilities
HSBC’s subordinated liabilities
2024 2023
$m $m
At amortised cost 25,958 24,954
– subordinated liabilities 25,080 23,149
– preferred securities 878 1,805
Designated at fair value (Note 25) 9,317 11,477
– subordinated liabilities 9,317 11,477
– preferred securities — —
At 31 Dec 35,275 36,431
Issued by HSBC subsidiaries 3,144 4,154
Issued by HSBC Holdings 32,131 32,277
Subordinated liabilities rank behind senior obligations and generally count towards the capital base of HSBC. Capital securities may be called
and redeemed by HSBC subject to prior notification to the PRA and, where relevant, the consent of the local banking regulator. If not redeemed
at the first call date, coupons payable may reset or become floating rate based on relevant market rates. On subordinated liabilities other than
floating rate notes, interest is payable at fixed rates of up to 8.201%.
The balance sheet amounts disclosed in the following table are presented on an IFRS basis and do not reflect the amount that the instruments
contribute to regulatory capital, principally due to regulatory amortisation and regulatory eligibility limits.
HSBC’s subordinated liabilities: subsidiaries
2024 2023
$m $m
Additional tier 1 capital securities issued by HSBC subsidiaries1 732 1,672
Tier 2 securities issued by HSBC subsidiaries
– Tier 2 securities issued by HSBC Bank plc 715 764
– Tier 2 securities issued by The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited —
– Tier 2 securities issued by HSBC Bank USA Inc 223 223
– Tier 2 securities issued by HSBC Bank USA N.A. 1,431 1,449
Securities issued by other HSBC subsidiaries 43 46
Subordinated liabilities issued by HSBC subsidiaries at 31 Dec 3,144 4,154
1 The $900m 10.176% security issued by HSBC Capital Funding (Dollar 1) L.P. was redeemed on 31 October 2024.
HSBC Holdings’ subordinated liabilities
2024 2023
$m $m
At amortised cost 23,548 24,439
Designated at fair value (Note 25) 8,314 8,449
At 31 Dec 31,862 32,888
HSBC Holdings’ subordinated liabilities in issue
2024 2023
$m $m
Tier 2 securities issued by HSBC Holdings
Amounts owed to third parties 31,862 31,975
Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings1 — 913
Subordinated liabilities issued by HSBC Holdings at 31 Dec 31,862 32,888
1 The $900m 10.176% security issued by HSBC Holdings to HSBC Capital Funding (Dollar 1) L.P. was redeemed on 31 October 2024.

[PAGE 419]

Guaranteed by HSBC Holdings or HSBC Bank plc
Capital securities guaranteed by HSBC Holdings or HSBC Bank plc were issued by the Jersey limited partnerships. The proceeds of these were
lent to the respective guarantors by the limited partnerships in the form of subordinated notes. They qualified as additional tier 1 capital for
HSBC under CRR II until 31 December 2021 by virtue of the application of grandfathering provisions. The capital securities guaranteed by HSBC
Bank plc also qualified as additional tier 1 capital for HSBC Bank plc (on a solo and a consolidated basis) under CRR II until 31 December 2021
by virtue of the same grandfathering process. Since 31 December 2021, these securities have no longer qualified as regulatory capital for HSBC
Holdings or HSBC Bank plc. On 31 October 2024, the capital securities guaranteed by HSBC Holdings were redeemed.
As at 31 December 2024 the preferred securities guaranteed by HSBC Bank plc are intended to provide investors with rights to income and
capital distributions, as well as distributions upon liquidation of the issuer that are equivalent to the rights that they would have had if they had
purchased non-cumulative perpetual preference shares of the issuer. There are limitations on the payment of distributions if such payments are
prohibited under UK banking regulations or other requirements, if a payment would cause a breach of HSBC Bank plc’s capital adequacy
requirements, or if HSBC Bank plc has insufficient distributable reserves (as defined).
HSBC Bank plc have covenanted that, if prevented under certain circumstances from paying distributions on the preferred securities in full, they
will not pay dividends or other distributions in respect of their ordinary shares, or repurchase or redeem their ordinary shares, until the
distribution on the preferred securities has been paid in full.
If the preferred securities guaranteed by HSBC Bank plc are outstanding in November 2048, or if the total capital ratio of HSBC Bank plc (on a
solo or consolidated basis) falls below the regulatory minimum required, or if the Directors expect it to do so in the near term, provided that
proceedings have not been commenced for the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of HSBC Bank plc, the holders’ interests in the preferred
security guaranteed by HSBC Bank plc will be exchanged for interests in preference shares issued by HSBC Bank plc that have economic
terms which are in all material respects equivalent to the preferred security and its guarantee.
Tier 2 securities
Tier 2 capital securities are either perpetual or dated subordinated securities on which there is an obligation to pay coupons. These capital
securities are included within HSBC’s regulatory capital base as tier 2 capital under CRR II, either as fully eligible capital or by virtue of the
application of grandfathering provisions. In accordance with CRR II, the capital contribution of all tier 2 securities is amortised for regulatory
purposes in their final five years before maturity.
30 Maturity analysis of assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet commitments
The table on page 418 provides an analysis of consolidated total assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet commitments by residual contractual
maturity at the balance sheet date. These balances are included in the maturity analysis as follows:
– Trading assets and liabilities (including trading derivatives but excluding reverse repos, repos and debt securities in issue) are included in the
‘Due not more than 1 month’ time bucket because trading balances are typically held for short periods of time.
– Financial assets and liabilities with no contractual maturity (such as equity securities) are included in the ‘Due over 5 years’ time bucket.
Undated or perpetual instruments are classified based on the contractual notice period, which the counterparty of the instrument is entitled
to give. Where there is no contractual notice period, undated or perpetual contracts are included in the ‘Due over 5 years’ time bucket.
– Non-financial assets and liabilities with no contractual maturity are included in the ‘Due over 5 years’ time bucket.
– Financial instruments included within assets and liabilities of disposal groups held for sale are classified on the basis of the contractual
maturity of the underlying instruments and not on the basis of the disposal transaction.
– Liabilities under insurance contracts included in ‘non-financial liabilities’ are irrespective of contractual maturity included in the ‘Due over 5
years’ time bucket in the maturity table provided below. An analysis of the present value of expected future cash flows of insurance contract
liabilities and contractual service margin is provided on page 373. Liabilities under investment contracts are classified in accordance with
their contractual maturity. Undated investment contracts are included in the ‘Due over 5 years’ time bucket, although such contracts are
subject to surrender and transfer options by the policyholders.
– Loan and other credit-related commitments are classified on the basis of the earliest date they can be drawn down.
Financial
statements

[PAGE 420]

Notes on the financial statements
HSBC
Maturity analysis of assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet commitments
Due over Due over Due over Due over Due over Due over
1 month 3 months 6 months 9 months 1 year 2 years
Due not but not but not but not but not but not but not
more more more more more more more
than than than than than than than Due over
1 month 3 months 6 months 9 months 1 year 2 years 5 years 5 years Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Financial assets
Cash and balances at central banks 267,674 — — — — — — — 267,674
Hong Kong Government certificates of
indebtedness 42,293 — — — — — — — 42,293
Trading assets 311,277 1,374 679 337 774 401 — — 314,842
Financial assets designated and otherwise
mandatorily measured at fair value through profit
or loss 6,329 1,497 1,218 810 1,570 4,010 11,503 88,832 115,769
Derivatives 264,689 401 709 377 164 364 524 1,409 268,637
Loans and advances to banks 69,778 16,300 3,871 4,264 2,922 2,276 2,236 392 102,039
Loans and advances to customers 135,250 69,955 53,557 36,945 38,985 89,061 176,645 330,260 930,658
– personal 45,221 10,236 7,634 6,705 6,197 19,683 53,434 295,588 444,698
– corporate and commercial 78,170 52,618 38,440 22,858 25,292 54,832 102,637 29,102 403,949
– financial 11,859 7,101 7,483 7,382 7,496 14,546 20,574 5,570 82,011
Reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading 179,590 36,552 15,054 3,715 6,659 7,400 3,579 — 252,549
Financial investments 35,780 74,850 50,650 15,907 20,465 54,125 143,870 97,519 493,166
Assets held for sale1 2,711 170 215 401 711 513 2,465 19,170 26,356
Accrued income and other financial assets 94,803 6,831 4,127 648 579 498 346 1,504 109,336
Financial assets at 31 Dec 2024 1,410,174 207,930 130,080 63,404 72,829 158,648 341,168 539,086 2,923,319
Non-financial assets — — — — — — — 93,729 93,729
Total assets at 31 Dec 2024 1,410,174 207,930 130,080 63,404 72,829 158,648 341,168 632,815 3,017,048
Off-balance sheet commitments received
Loan and other credit-related commitments 41,875 — — — — — — — 41,875
Financial liabilities
Hong Kong currency notes in circulation 42,293 — — — — — — — 42,293
Deposits by banks 54,714 1,595 2,227 653 3,924 507 9,919 458 73,997
Customer accounts 1,382,204 168,423 58,928 19,062 17,389 6,482 2,353 114 1,654,955
– personal 640,031 111,341 41,429 13,429 11,109 3,983 1,981 — 823,303
– corporate and commercial 564,693 45,047 14,708 3,991 4,748 1,968 332 106 635,593
– financial 177,480 12,035 2,791 1,642 1,532 531 40 8 196,059
Repurchase agreements – non-trading 168,075 10,340 1,176 450 473 171 — 195 180,880
Trading liabilities 58,069 4,933 2,873 7 100 — — — 65,982
Financial liabilities designated at
fair value 19,037 8,732 5,890 4,765 5,600 17,013 43,274 34,416 138,727
– debt securities in issue: covered bonds — — — — — — — — —
– debt securities in issue: unsecured 8,431 4,148 3,557 2,885 4,362 14,660 38,259 22,866 99,168
– subordinated liabilities and preferred
securities — — — 1,011 — 886 1,871 5,548 9,316
– other 10,606 4,584 2,333 869 1,238 1,467 3,144 6,002 30,243
Derivatives 262,928 2 6 3 1 43 192 1,273 264,448
Debt securities in issue 5,761 10,915 10,330 7,332 7,239 14,724 22,311 27,173 105,785
– covered bonds — — — — — — 1,253 — 1,253
– otherwise secured 511 47 67 64 61 664 520 2,236 4,170
– unsecured 5,250 10,868 10,263 7,268 7,178 14,060 20,538 24,937 100,362
Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale2 5,356 223 42 2 107 — — 1,448 7,178
Accruals and other financial liabilities 99,424 11,827 5,415 1,013 1,241 902 1,489 738 122,049
Subordinated liabilities — — 1,719 16 — — 861 23,362 25,958
Total financial liabilities at 31 Dec 2024 2,097,861 216,990 88,606 33,303 36,074 39,842 80,399 89,177 2,682,252
Non-financial liabilities — — — — — — — 142,523 142,523
Total liabilities at 31 Dec 2024 2,097,861 216,990 88,606 33,303 36,074 39,842 80,399 231,700 2,824,775
Off-balance sheet commitments given
Loan and other credit-related commitments 861,181 74 12 85 49 6 57 114 861,578
– personal 253,522 — — — — — — — 253,522
– corporate and commercial 460,762 74 12 85 49 6 57 114 461,159
– financial 146,897 — — — — — — — 146,897

[PAGE 421]

Maturity analysis of assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet commitments (continued)
Due over Due over
1 month 3 months Due over Due over Due over Due over
Due not but not but not 6 months 9 months 1 year 2 years
more more more but not but not but not but not
than than than more than more than more than more than Due over
1 month 3 months 6 months 9 months 1 year 2 years 5 years 5 years Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Financial assets
Cash and balances at central banks 285,868 — — — — — — — 285,868
Hong Kong Government certificates of
indebtedness 42,024 — — — — — — — 42,024
Trading assets 284,865 2,010 637 363 555 165 564 — 289,159
Financial assets designated and otherwise
mandatorily measured at fair value through profit
or loss 5,530 697 821 753 581 4,839 11,917 85,505 110,643
Derivatives 227,343 138 134 71 35 383 570 1,040 229,714
Loans and advances to banks 76,524 18,662 6,487 2,689 3,281 2,756 2,328 175 112,902
Loans and advances to customers 142,803 66,425 52,218 40,135 36,323 94,206 175,381 331,044 938,535
– personal 44,105 9,558 6,960 6,422 6,127 19,606 54,365 297,512 444,655
– corporate and commercial 83,281 50,268 38,250 24,685 24,566 61,612 106,598 30,592 419,852
– financial 15,417 6,599 7,008 9,028 5,630 12,988 14,418 2,940 74,028
Reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading 164,826 43,893 23,840 6,708 5,126 6,113 1,711 — 252,217
Financial investments 48,969 69,816 44,493 16,348 18,603 46,124 106,117 92,293 442,763
Assets held for sale1 39,882 2,929 7,041 4,176 3,261 17,085 33,015 7,943 115,332
Accrued income and other financial assets 114,480 6,574 4,404 550 698 220 764 1,513 129,203
Financial assets at 31 Dec 2023 1,433,114 211,144 140,075 71,793 68,463 171,891 332,367 519,513 2,948,360
Non-financial assets — — — — — — — 90,317 90,317
Total assets at 31 Dec 2023 1,433,114 211,144 140,075 71,793 68,463 171,891 332,367 609,830 3,038,677
Off-balance sheet commitments received
Loan and other credit-related commitments 39,836 — — — — — — — 39,836
Financial liabilities
Hong Kong currency notes in circulation 42,024 — — — — — — — 42,024
Deposits by banks 52,747 2,758 2,324 381 94 1,458 13,064 337 73,163
Customer accounts 1,343,858 138,117 78,611 20,832 17,724 7,785 4,616 104 1,611,647
– personal 621,112 84,909 61,286 14,794 12,465 5,507 2,742 2 802,817
– corporate and commercial 545,207 43,562 14,525 4,605 3,393 2,165 1,527 92 615,076
– financial 177,539 9,646 2,800 1,433 1,866 113 347 10 193,754
Repurchase agreements – non-trading 158,882 10,311 1,759 300 847 1 — — 172,100
Trading liabilities 66,548 6,302 300 — — — — — 73,150
Financial liabilities designated at fair value 22,080 8,366 7,823 7,197 6,239 16,679 39,497 33,545 141,426
– debt securities in issue: covered bonds — — — — — — — — —
– debt securities in issue: unsecured 10,383 2,760 5,748 6,225 5,390 14,090 34,757 23,898 103,251
– subordinated liabilities and preferred
securities — 1,995 — — — 1,471 3,429 4,581 11,476
– other 11,697 3,611 2,075 972 849 1,118 1,311 5,066 26,699
Derivatives 233,134 113 25 9 47 73 1,223 148 234,772
Debt securities in issue 6,891 6,664 10,816 6,896 6,427 6,317 27,452 22,454 93,917
– covered bonds — — — — — — 1,273 — 1,273
– otherwise secured 447 44 62 58 55 188 861 1,679 3,394
– unsecured 6,444 6,620 10,754 6,838 6,372 6,129 25,318 20,775 89,250
Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale2 69,868 5,231 5,479 6,728 6,541 4,730 7,918 1,511 108,006
Accruals and other financial liabilities 111,559 11,827 6,007 1,205 1,414 1,053 1,491 2,137 136,693
Subordinated liabilities — 13 — — — 1,790 897 22,254 24,954
Total financial liabilities at 31 Dec 2023 2,107,591 189,702 113,144 43,548 39,333 39,886 96,158 82,490 2,711,852
Non-financial liabilities — — — — — — — 134,215 134,215
Total liabilities at 31 Dec 2023 2,107,591 189,702 113,144 43,548 39,333 39,886 96,158 216,705 2,846,067
Off-balance sheet commitments given
Loan and other credit-related commitments 895,140 95 126 72 171 439 807 300 897,150
– personal 256,272 21 30 46 107 279 745 192 257,692
– corporate and commercial 472,507 74 26 26 64 160 62 108 473,027
– financial 166,361 — 70 — — — — — 166,431
1 Unallocated impairment losses in relation to disposal groups of $0.03bn (2023: $2.0bn) and non-financial assets of $0.9bn (2023: $0.9bn) that are presented
within assets held for sale on the balance sheet have been included within non-financial assets in the table above.
2 A total of $21.8bn (2023: $0.4bn) of non-financial liabilities that are presented within liabilities of disposal groups held for sale on the balance sheet have been
included within non-financial liabilities in the table above.
Financial
statements

[PAGE 422]

Notes on the financial statements
HSBC Holdings
Maturity analysis of assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet commitments
Due over Due over Due over Due over Due over Due over
Due not 1 month 3 months 6 months 9 months 1 year 2 years
more but not but not but not but not but not but not Due
than more than more than more than more than more than more than over
1 month 3 months 6 months 9 months 1 year 2 years 5 years 5 years Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Financial assets
Cash at bank and in hand:
– balances with HSBC undertakings 2,548 — — — — — — — 2,548
Financial assets with HSBC undertakings
designated and otherwise mandatorily
measured at fair value — — — — — 5,835 31,547 23,904 61,286
Derivatives 2,339 — 24 — — 243 162 286 3,054
Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings 8,500 — 120 — 13 1,640 6,739 20,665 37,677
Trading assets 709 — — — — — — — 709
Financial investments 6,141 4,187 — — — — — — 10,328
Accrued income and other financial assets 2,719 856 292 203 11 — — — 4,081
Total financial assets at 31 Dec 2024 22,956 5,043 436 203 24 7,718 38,448 44,855 119,683
Non-financial assets — — — — — — — 154,574 154,574
Total assets at 31 Dec 2024 22,956 5,043 436 203 24 7,718 38,448 199,429 274,257
Financial liabilities
Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings — 231 — — — — — — 231
Financial liabilities designated at fair value — — — 1,012 — 3,641 16,907 20,022 41,582
– debt securities in issue — — — — — 2,755 15,036 15,476 33,267
– subordinated liabilities and preferred
securities — — — 1,012 — 886 1,871 4,546 8,315
Derivatives 1,502 89 144 44 45 209 794 2,513 5,340
Debt securities in issue — — — — — 14,897 24,395 25,028 64,320
Accruals and other financial liabilities 351 1,713 831 129 31 — — 20 3,075
Subordinated liabilities — — 1,541 — — — 836 21,171 23,548
Total financial liabilities 31 Dec 2024 1,853 2,033 2,516 1,185 76 18,747 42,932 68,754 138,096
Non-financial liabilities — — — — — — — 22 22
Total liabilities at 31 Dec 2024 1,853 2,033 2,516 1,185 76 18,747 42,932 68,776 138,118
Financial assets
Cash at bank and in hand:
– balances with HSBC undertakings 7,029 — — — — — — — 7,029
Financial assets with HSBC undertakings
designated and otherwise mandatorily
measured at fair value — — — — — 3,815 26,284 29,780 59,879
Derivatives 2,217 — — — — 18 675 434 3,344
Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings — — 120 — — 1,016 6,783 19,435 27,354
Financial investments 10,365 6,017 898 750 757 771 — — 19,558
Accrued income and other financial assets 3,511 860 254 229 5 — — — 4,859
Total financial assets at 31 Dec 2023 23,122 6,877 1,272 979 762 5,620 33,742 49,649 122,023
Non-financial assets — — — — — — — 163,146 163,146
Total assets at 31 Dec 2023 23,122 6,877 1,272 979 762 5,620 33,742 212,795 285,169
Financial liabilities
Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings — 168 — — — — — — 168
Financial liabilities designated at fair value — — — — — 5,287 19,604 18,747 43,638
– debt securities in issue — — — — — 3,816 16,175 15,198 35,189
– subordinated liabilities and preferred
securities — — — — — 1,471 3,429 3,549 8,449
Derivatives 2,452 209 7 59 75 558 1,318 1,412 6,090
Debt securities in issue — — 816 2,158 — 4,920 33,735 23,610 65,239
Accruals and other financial liabilities 1,437 1,599 1,049 127 34 — — 23 4,269
Subordinated liabilities — 1,987 — — — 1,600 880 19,972 24,439
Total financial liabilities at 31 Dec 2023 3,889 3,963 1,872 2,344 109 12,365 55,537 63,764 143,843
Non-financial liabilities — — — — — — — 20 20
Total liabilities at 31 Dec 2023 3,889 3,963 1,872 2,344 109 12,365 55,537 63,784 143,863

[PAGE 423]

Contractual maturity of financial liabilities
The following table shows, on an undiscounted basis, all cash flows relating to principal and future coupon payments (except for trading
liabilities and derivatives not treated as hedging derivatives). For this reason, balances in the following table do not agree directly with those in
our consolidated balance sheet. Undiscounted cash flows payable in relation to hedging derivative liabilities are classified according to their
contractual maturities. Trading liabilities and derivatives not treated as hedging derivatives are included in the ‘Due not more than 1 month’ time
bucket and not by contractual maturity.
In addition, loan and other credit-related commitments and financial guarantees are generally not recognised on our balance sheet. The
undiscounted cash flows potentially payable under loan and other credit-related commitments and financial guarantees are classified on the
basis of the earliest date they can be called.
Cash flows payable by HSBC under financial liabilities by remaining contractual maturities
Due over Due over
Due not 1 month but Due over 1 year but
more not more 3 months but not
than 1 than not more than more than Due over
month 3 months 1 year 5 years 5 years Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m
Deposits by banks 54,819 1,759 7,381 11,242 511 75,712
Customer accounts 1,382,666 171,917 97,667 10,089 113 1,662,452
Repurchase agreements – non-trading 168,633 10,425 2,195 188 196 181,637
Trading liabilities 65,982 — — — — 65,982
Financial liabilities designated at fair value 19,139 9,042 18,462 70,587 45,767 162,997
Derivatives 262,014 531 1,008 2,034 2,765 268,352
Debt securities in issue 5,780 11,309 27,103 45,725 32,129 122,046
Subordinated liabilities 39 120 2,959 7,373 35,512 46,003
Other financial liabilities1 138,319 9,754 5,421 2,206 608 156,308
2,097,391 214,857 162,196 149,444 117,601 2,741,489
Loan and other credit-related commitments 861,193 78 146 63 98 861,578
Financial guarantees2 16,998 — — — — 16,998
At 31 Dec 2024 2,975,582 214,935 162,342 149,507 117,699 3,620,065
Proportion of cash flows payable in period 83% 6% 4% 4% 3%
Deposits by banks 52,938 2,898 3,304 17,123 362 76,625
Customer accounts 1,345,006 141,348 119,660 13,423 109 1,619,546
Repurchase agreements – non-trading 159,264 10,457 2,996 1 — 172,718
Trading liabilities 73,150 — — — — 73,150
Financial liabilities designated at fair value 22,262 9,156 26,033 63,960 44,886 166,297
Derivatives 232,598 609 1,295 2,445 2,910 239,857
Debt securities in issue 6,837 7,407 24,117 43,513 27,119 108,993
Subordinated liabilities 39 135 1,465 9,020 34,920 45,579
Other financial liabilities1 149,904 9,752 5,943 2,555 2,109 170,263
2,041,998 181,762 184,813 152,040 112,415 2,673,028
Loan and other credit-related commitments 895,156 95 371 1,437 91 897,150
Financial guarantees2 16,966 4 39 — — 17,009
At 31 Dec 2023 2,954,120 181,861 185,223 153,477 112,506 3,587,187
Proportion of cash flows payable in period 83% 5% 5% 4% 3%
1 Excludes financial liabilities of disposal groups.
2 Excludes performance guarantee contracts to which the impairment requirements in IFRS 9 are not applied.
HSBC Holdings
HSBC Holdings’ primary sources of liquidity are dividends received from subsidiaries, interest on and repayment of intra-Group loans and
securities, and interest earned on its own liquid funds. HSBC Holdings also raises funds in the debt capital markets to meet the Group’s
minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities and maintain an appropriate liquidity buffer. HSBC Holdings uses this liquidity to
meet its obligations, including interest and principal repayments on external debt liabilities, operating expenses and collateral on derivative
transactions.
HSBC Holdings is also subject to contingent liquidity risk by virtue of credit-related commitments and guarantees and similar contracts issued
relating to its subsidiaries. Such commitments and guarantees are only issued after due consideration of HSBC Holdings’ ability to finance the
commitments and guarantees and the likelihood of the need arising.
HSBC Holdings actively manages the cash flows from its subsidiaries to optimise the amount of cash held at the holding company level. During
2024, consistent with the Group’s capital plan, the Group’s material subsidiaries did not experience any significant restrictions on paying
dividends or repaying loans and advances. Also, there are no foreseen restrictions envisaged with regard to planned dividends or payments
from material subsidiaries. However, the ability of subsidiaries to pay dividends or advance monies to HSBC Holdings depends on, among other
things, their respective local regulatory capital and banking requirements, exchange controls, statutory reserves, and financial and operating
performance.
HSBC Holdings currently has sufficient liquidity to meet its present and forecast requirements.
Financial
statements

[PAGE 424]

Notes on the financial statements
The following table shows, on an undiscounted basis, all cash flows relating to principal and future coupon payments (except for trading
liabilities and derivatives not treated as hedging derivatives). For this reason, balances in the following table do not agree directly with those in
HSBC Holdings balance sheet. Undiscounted cash flows payable in relation to hedging derivative liabilities are classified according to their
contractual maturities. Trading liabilities and derivatives not treated as hedging derivatives are included in the ‘Due not more than 1 month’ time
bucket and not by contractual maturity.
In addition, loan and other credit-related commitments and financial guarantees are generally not recognised on our balance sheet. The
undiscounted cash flows potentially payable under loan and other credit-related commitments and financial guarantees are classified on the
basis of the earliest date they can be called.
Cash flows payable by HSBC Holdings under financial liabilities by remaining contractual maturities
Due over 1 Due over 3
Due not month but months but Due over 1
more not not more year but not
than 1 more than 3 than more than 5 Due over
month months 1 year years 5 years Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m
Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings — 231 — — — 231
Financial liabilities designated at fair value 2 133 2,254 26,335 26,788 55,512
Derivatives 669 202 1,344 2,591 1,658 6,464
Debt securities in issue — 254 1,697 47,771 29,706 79,428
Subordinated liabilities — 105 2,627 6,794 31,773 41,299
Other financial liabilities 351 1,735 991 — 20 3,097
At 31 Dec 2024 1,022 2,660 8,913 83,491 89,945 186,031
Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings — 168 — — — 168
Financial liabilities designated at fair value 23 405 1,437 31,050 25,610 58,525
Derivatives 1,244 556 1,651 2,227 726 6,404
Debt securities in issue — 680 4,787 46,909 27,745 80,121
Subordinated liabilities 46 2,163 1,360 8,239 30,862 42,670
Other financial liabilities 1,436 1,620 1,210 — 23 4,289
At 31 Dec 2023 2,749 5,592 10,445 88,425 84,966 192,177
31 Offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities
In the offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities, the net amount is reported in the balance sheet when the offset criteria are met. This
is achieved when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is either an intention to settle on a net basis, or
realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
In the following table, the ‘Amounts not set off in the balance sheet’ include transactions where:
– the counterparty has an offsetting exposure with HSBC and a master netting or similar arrangement is in place with a right to set off only in
the event of default, insolvency or bankruptcy, or the offset criteria are otherwise not satisfied; and
– cash and non-cash collateral (debt securities and equities) has been received/pledged for derivatives and reverse repurchase/repurchase,
stock borrowing/lending and similar agreements to cover net exposure in the event of a default or other predetermined events.
The effect of over-collateralisation is excluded.
‘Amounts not subject to enforceable netting agreements’ include contracts executed in jurisdictions where the rights of offset may not be
upheld under the local bankruptcy laws, and transactions where a legal opinion evidencing enforceability of the right of offset may not have
been sought, or may have been unable to obtain.
For risk management purposes, the net amounts of loans and advances to customers are subject to limits, which are monitored and the
relevant customer agreements are subject to review and updated, as necessary, to ensure the legal right to set off remains appropriate.

[PAGE 425]

Offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities
Amounts subject to enforceable netting arrangements
Amounts not set off in the
balance sheet
Net Financial Amounts not
amounts instruments, subject to
in the including enforceable
Gross Amounts balance non-cash Cash Net netting
amounts offset sheet collateral collateral amount arrangements1 Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Financial assets
Derivatives (Note 15)2 372,699 (112,746) 259,953 (230,133) (22,730) 7,090 8,684 268,637
Reverse repos, stock borrowing and
similar agreements classified as:3
– trading assets 25,077 (637) 24,440 (24,428) (10) 2 757 25,197
– non-trading assets 386,124 (154,133) 231,991 (230,584) (332) 1,075 20,602 252,593
Loans and advances to customers4 34,582 (16,540) 18,042 (15,313) (75) 2,654 4 18,046
At 31 Dec 2024 818,482 (284,056) 534,426 (500,458) (23,147) 10,821 30,047 564,473
Derivatives (Note 15)2 341,473 (116,486) 224,987 (198,743) (22,926) 3,318 4,727 229,714
Reverse repos, stock borrowing and
similar agreements classified as:3
– trading assets 29,152 (602) 28,550 (28,513) (34) 3 2,633 31,183
– non-trading assets 365,922 (135,210) 230,712 (230,240) (80) 392 21,653 252,365
Loans and advances to customers4 34,173 (15,792) 18,381 (15,613) (93) 2,675 2 18,383
At 31 Dec 2023 770,720 (268,090) 502,630 (473,109) (23,133) 6,388 29,015 531,645
Financial liabilities
Derivatives (Note 15)2 369,287 (112,746) 256,541 (221,232) (30,334) 4,975 7,907 264,448
Repos, stock lending and similar
agreements classified as:3
– trading liabilities 18,482 (157) 18,325 (18,326) — (1) 6 18,331
– non-trading liabilities 287,648 (154,613) 133,035 (131,719) (164) 1,152 47,845 180,880
Customer accounts5 41,409 (16,540) 24,869 (15,313) (75) 9,481 17 24,886
At 31 Dec 2024 716,826 (284,056) 432,770 (386,590) (30,573) 15,607 55,775 488,545
Derivatives (Note 15)2 344,799 (116,486) 228,313 (198,640) (23,748) 5,925 6,459 234,772
Repos, stock lending and similar
agreements classified as:3
– trading liabilities 15,686 (172) 15,514 (15,453) — 61 6 15,520
– non-trading liabilities 270,493 (135,640) 134,853 (134,095) (669) 89 37,247 172,100
Customer accounts5 42,522 (15,792) 26,730 (15,613) (93) 11,024 13 26,743
At 31 Dec 2023 673,500 (268,090) 405,410 (363,801) (24,510) 17,099 43,725 449,135
1 These exposures continue to be secured by financial collateral, but we may not have sought or been able to obtain a legal opinion evidencing enforceability of
the right of offset.
2 At 31 December 2024, the amount of cash margin received that had been offset against the gross derivatives assets was $5,303m (2023: $5,105m). The
amount of cash margin paid that had been offset against the gross derivatives liabilities was $5,614m (2023: $7,142m).
3 For the amount of repos, reverse repos, stock lending, stock borrowing and similar agreements recognised on the balance sheet within ‘Trading assets’ of
$25,197m (2023: $31,183m) and ‘Trading liabilities’ of $18,331m (2023: $15,520m), see the ‘Funding sources and uses’ table on page 209.
4 At 31 December 2024, the total amount of ‘Loans and advances to customers’ was $930,658m (2023: $938,535m), of which $18,042m (2023: $18,381m) was
subject to offsetting.
5 At 31 December 2024, the total amount of ‘Customer accounts’ was $1,654,955m (2023: $1,611,647m), of which $24,869m (2023: $26,730m) was subject to
offsetting.
32 Called up share capital and other equity instruments
Called up share capital and share premium
HSBC Holdings ordinary shares of $0.50 each, issued and fully paid
2024 2023
Number $m Number $m
At 1 Jan 19,262,728,193 9,631 20,293,607,410 10,147
Shares issued under HSBC employee share plans 10,283,430 5 10,778,479 5
Shares issued in lieu of dividends — — — —
Less: shares repurchased and cancelled 1,326,061,041 663 716,384,289 358
Less: treasury shares cancelled — — 325,273,407 163
At 31 Dec1 17,946,950,582 8,973 19,262,728,193 9,631
1 All HSBC Holdings ordinary shares in issue confer identical rights, including in respect of capital, dividends and voting.
Financial
statements

[PAGE 426]

Notes on the financial statements
HSBC Holdings share premium
2024 2023
$m $m
At 31 Dec 14,810 14,738
Total called up share capital and share premium
2024 2023
$m $m
At 31 Dec 23,783 24,369
HSBC Holdings non-cumulative preference share of £0.01
The one non-cumulative sterling preference share of £0.01 (‘sterling preference share’) has been in issue since 29 December 2010 and is held
by a subsidiary of HSBC Holdings. Dividends are paid quarterly at the sole and absolute discretion of the Board. The sterling preference share
carries no rights of conversion into ordinary shares of HSBC Holdings and no right to attend or vote at shareholder meetings of HSBC Holdings.
These securities can be redeemed by HSBC Holdings at any time, subject to prior approval by the PRA.
Other equity instruments
HSBC Holdings has included two types of additional tier 1 capital securities in its tier 1 capital, including the contingent convertible securities
described below. These are accounted for as equity because HSBC does not have an obligation to transfer cash or a variable number of its own
ordinary shares to holders under any circumstances outside its control. See Note 29 for additional tier 1 securities accounted for as liabilities.
Additional tier 1 capital – contingent convertible securities
HSBC Holdings continues to issue contingent convertible securities that are included in its capital base as fully CRR II-compliant additional tier 1
capital securities on an end point basis. These securities are marketed principally and subsequently allotted to corporate investors and fund
managers. The net proceeds of the issuances are typically used for HSBC Holdings’ general corporate purposes and to further strengthen its
capital base to meet requirements under CRR II. These securities bear a fixed rate of interest until their initial call dates. After the initial call
dates, if they are not redeemed, the securities will bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance for five-year periods based on credit
spreads, fixed at issuance, above prevailing market rates. Interest on the contingent convertible securities will be due and payable only at the
sole discretion of HSBC Holdings, and HSBC Holdings has sole and absolute discretion at all times to cancel for any reason (in whole or part)
any interest payment that would otherwise be payable on any payment date. Distributions will not be paid if they are prohibited under UK
banking regulations or if the Group has insufficient reserves or fails to meet the solvency conditions defined in the securities’ terms.
The contingent convertible securities are undated and are repayable at the option of HSBC Holdings in whole typically at the initial call date or
on any fifth anniversary after this date. In addition, the securities are repayable at the option of HSBC in whole for certain regulatory or tax
reasons. Any repayments require the prior consent of the PRA. These securities rank pari passu with HSBC Holdings’ sterling preference
shares and therefore rank ahead of ordinary shares. The contingent convertible securities will be converted into fully paid ordinary shares of
HSBC Holdings at a predetermined price, should HSBC’s consolidated non-transitional CET1 ratio fall below 7.0%. Therefore, in accordance
with the terms of the securities, if the non-transitional CET1 ratio breaches the 7.0% trigger, the securities will convert into ordinary shares at
fixed contractual conversion prices in the issuance currencies of the relevant securities, subject to anti-dilution adjustments.
HSBC’s additional tier 1 capital – contingent convertible securities in issue which are accounted for in equity
Original nominal First call 2024 2023
amount (LCY) date $m $m
$2,250m 6.375% Perpetual Subordinated Contingent Convertible Securities1 Sept 2024 — 2,250
$2,450m 6.375% Perpetual Subordinated Contingent Convertible Securities Mar 2025 2,450 2,450
$3,000m 6.000% Perpetual Subordinated Contingent Convertible Securities May 2027 3,000 3,000
$1,800m 6.500% Perpetual Subordinated Contingent Convertible Securities Mar 2028 1,800 1,800
$1,500m 4.600% Perpetual Subordinated Contingent Convertible Securities2 Dec 2030 1,500 1,500
$1,000m 4.000% Perpetual Subordinated Contingent Convertible Securities3 Mar 2026 1,000 1,000
$1,000m 4.700% Perpetual Subordinated Contingent Convertible Securities4 Mar 2031 1,000 1,000
$2,000m 8.000% Perpetual Subordinated Contingent Convertible Securities5 Mar 2028 1,980 1,980
€1,250m 4.750% Perpetual Subordinated Contingent Convertible Securities Jul 2029 1,422 1,422
£1,000m 5.875% Perpetual Subordinated Contingent Convertible Securities Sept 2026 1,301 1,301
$1,350m 6.875% Perpetual Subordinated Contingent Convertible Securities6 Sept 2029 1,337 —
$1,150m 6.950% Perpetual Subordinated Contingent Convertible Securities7 Mar 2034 1,138 —
SGD1,500m 5.250% Perpetual Subordinated Contingent Convertible Securities8 Jun 2029 1,096 —
At 31 Dec 19,024 17,703
1 This security was called by HSBC Holdings on 23 July 2024 and redeemed and cancelled on 17 September 2024.
2 This security was issued by HSBC Holdings on 17 December 2020. The first call period commences six months prior to reset date of 17 June 2031.
3 This security was issued by HSBC Holdings on 9 March 2021. The first call period commences six months prior to reset date of 9 September 2026.
4 This security was issued by HSBC Holdings on 9 March 2021. The first call period commences six months prior to reset date of 9 September 2031.
5 This security was issued by HSBC Holdings on 7 March 2023. The first call period commences six months prior to reset date of 7 September 2028. This security
has been accounted for net of directly attributable transaction costs.
6 This security was issued by HSBC Holdings on 11 September 2024. The first call period commences six months prior to reset date of 11 March 2030. This
security has been accounted for net of directly attributable transaction costs.
7 This security was issued by HSBC Holdings on 11 September 2024. The first call period commences six months prior to reset date of 11 September 2034. This
security has been accounted for net of directly attributable transaction costs.
8 This security was issued by HSBC Holdings on 14 June 2024. The first call period commences six months prior to reset date of 14 December 2039.

[PAGE 427]

Shares under option
For details of the options outstanding to subscribe for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under the HSBC Holdings Savings-Related Share Option
Plan (UK), see Note 5.
Aggregate options outstanding under these plans
31 Dec 2024 31 Dec 2023
Number of Number of
HSBC Holdings Usual period of HSBC Holdings Usual period of
ordinary shares exercise Exercise price ordinary shares exercise Exercise price
75,335,399 2023 to 2030 £2.6270–£5.4490 83,993,678 2022 to 2029 £2.6270–5.4490
Maximum obligation to deliver HSBC Holdings ordinary shares
At 31 December 2024, the maximum obligation to deliver HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under all of the above option arrangements and the
HSBC International Employee Share Purchase Plan, together with long-term incentive awards and deferred share awards granted under the
HSBC Share Plan 2011, was 209,683,768 (2023: 208,539,316). The total number of shares at 31 December 2024 held by employee benefit
trusts that may be used to satisfy such obligations to deliver HSBC Holdings ordinary shares was 9,305,925 (2023: 20,902,218).
33 Contingent liabilities, contractual commitments and guarantees
HSBC HSBC Holdings1
2024 2023 2024 2023
$m $m $m $m
Guarantees and other contingent liabilities:
– financial guarantees 16,998 17,009 — —
– performance and other guarantees 92,723 94,277 7,327 7,723
– other contingent liabilities 298 636 — —
At 31 Dec 110,019 111,922 7,327 7,723
Commitments:2
– documentary credits and short-term trade-related transactions 7,096 7,818 — —
– forward asset purchases and forward deposits placed 61,017 78,535 — —
– standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments to lend 793,465 810,797 — —
At 31 Dec 861,578 897,150 — —
1 Guarantees by HSBC Holdings are in favour of other Group entities. These include contracts that provide protection against credit risk on a specified exposure
but do not meet the definition of financial guarantees.
2 Includes $619,367m of commitments at 31 December 2024 (31 December 2023: $661,015m), to which the impairment requirements in IFRS 9 are applied
where HSBC has become party to an irrevocable commitment.
The preceding table discloses the nominal principal amounts of off-balance sheet liabilities and commitments for the Group, which represent
the maximum amounts at risk should the contracts be fully drawn upon and the clients default. As a significant portion of guarantees and
commitments are expected to expire without being drawn upon, the total of the nominal principal amounts is not indicative of future liquidity
requirements. The expected credit loss provision relating to guarantees and commitments under IFRS 9 is disclosed in Note 28.
The majority of the guarantees have a term of less than one year, while guarantees with terms of more than one year are subject to HSBC’s
annual credit review process.
Contingent liabilities arising from legal proceedings, regulatory and other matters against Group companies are excluded from this note but are
disclosed in Notes 28 and 35.
Financial Services Compensation Scheme
The Financial Services Compensation Scheme (‘FSCS’) provides compensation, up to certain limits, to eligible customers of financial services
firms that are unable, or likely to be unable, to pay claims against them. The FSCS may impose a further levy on the Group to the extent the
industry levies imposed to date are not sufficient to cover the compensation due to customers in any future possible collapse. The ultimate
FSCS levy to the industry as a result of a collapse cannot be estimated reliably. It is dependent on various uncertain factors including the
potential recovery of assets by the FSCS, changes in the level of protected products (including deposits and investments) and the population of
FSCS members at the time.
Associates
HSBC’s share of associates’ contingent liabilities, contractual commitments and guarantees amounted to $74.5bn at 31 December 2024 (2023:
$69.9bn). No matters arose where HSBC was severally liable.
Financial
statements

[PAGE 428]

Notes on the financial statements
34 Finance lease receivables
HSBC leases a variety of assets to third parties under finance leases, including transport assets (such as aircraft), property and general plant
and machinery. At the end of lease terms, assets may be sold to third parties or leased for further terms. Rentals are calculated to recover the
cost of assets less their residual value, and earn finance income.
The table below excludes finance lease receivables reclassified on the balance sheet to ‘Assets held for sale’ in accordance with IFRS 5. Net
investment in finance leases of $1,595m was reclassified to ‘Assets held for sale’ in 2023 as a result of the sale of our banking business in
Canada. There was no net investment in finance leases classified as held-for-sale at 31 December 2024.
2024 2023
Total future Unearned Total future Unearned
minimum finance Present minimum finance Present
payments income value payments income value
$m $m $m $m $m $m
Lease receivables:
No later than one year 2,331 (295) 2,036 2,355 (308) 2,047
One to two years 1,787 (226) 1,561 1,954 (249) 1,705
Two to three years 1,290 (171) 1,119 1,380 (189) 1,191
Three to four years 839 (134) 705 930 (153) 777
Four to five years 766 (147) 619 593 (132) 461
Later than one year and no later than five years 4,682 (678) 4,004 4,857 (723) 4,134
Later than five years 3,518 (639) 2,879 4,116 (838) 3,278
At 31 Dec 10,531 (1,612) 8,919 11,328 (1,869) 9,459
35 Legal proceedings and regulatory matters
HSBC is party to legal proceedings and regulatory matters in a number of jurisdictions arising out of its normal business operations. Apart from
the matters described below, HSBC considers that none of these matters are material. The recognition of provisions is determined in
accordance with the accounting policies set out in Note 1. While the outcomes of legal proceedings and regulatory matters are inherently
uncertain, management believes that, based on the information available to it, appropriate provisions have been made in respect of these
matters as at 31 December 2024 (see Note 28). Where an individual provision is material, the fact that a provision has been made is stated and
quantified, except to the extent that doing so would be seriously prejudicial. Any provision recognised does not constitute an admission of
wrongdoing or legal liability. It is not practicable to provide an aggregate estimate of potential liability for our legal proceedings and regulatory
matters as a class of contingent liabilities.
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC
Various non-US HSBC companies provided custodial, administration and similar services to a number of funds incorporated outside the US
whose assets were invested with Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC (‘Madoff Securities’). Based on information provided by Madoff
Securities as at 30 November 2008, the purported aggregate value of these funds was $8.4bn, including fictitious profits reported by Madoff.
Based on information available to HSBC, the funds’ actual transfers to Madoff Securities minus their actual withdrawals from Madoff Securities
during the time HSBC serviced the funds are estimated to have totalled approximately $4bn. Various HSBC companies have been named as
defendants in lawsuits arising out of Madoff Securities’ fraud.
Trustee litigation: The Madoff Securities trustee (the ‘Trustee’) has brought lawsuits in the US against various HSBC companies and others
seeking recovery of alleged transfers from Madoff Securities to the HSBC companies in the amount of $543m (plus interest), and these
lawsuits remain pending in the US Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York.
The Trustee has filed a claim against various HSBC companies in the High Court of England and Wales seeking recovery of alleged transfers
from Madoff Securities to the HSBC companies. The claim has not yet been served and the amount claimed has not been specified.
Fairfield Funds litigation: Fairfield Sentry Limited, Fairfield Sigma Limited and Fairfield Lambda Limited (together, the ‘Fairfield Funds’) (in
liquidation) have brought lawsuits in the US against various HSBC companies and others seeking recovery of alleged transfers from the Fairfield
Funds to the HSBC companies (that acted as nominees for clients) in the amount of $382m (plus interest). Fairfield Funds’ claims against most
of the HSBC companies have been dismissed, but remain pending on appeal before the US Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. Fairfield
Funds’ claims against HSBC Private Bank (Suisse) SA (‘PBRS’) and HSBC Securities Services Luxembourg (‘HSSL’) have not been dismissed
and are ongoing before the US Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York. PBRS and HSSL have appealed the decision not to
dismiss them and these appeals are pending before the US Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.
Herald Fund SPC (‘Herald’) litigation: HSSL and HSBC Bank plc are defending an action brought by Herald (in liquidation) before the
Luxembourg District Court seeking restitution of securities and cash in the amount of $2.5bn (plus interest), or damages in the amount of
$5.6bn (plus interest). In 2013, the Luxembourg District Court dismissed Herald’s securities restitution claim and stayed the cash restitution
and damages claims. In December 2024, the Luxembourg Court of Appeal reversed the Luxembourg District Court’s dismissal and determined
that Herald’s claims for restitution of securities and cash were founded in principle. HSSL has appealed this decision. Herald’s claim against
HSBC Bank plc is pending.
Alpha Prime Fund Limited (‘Alpha Prime’) litigation: Various HSBC companies are defending a number of actions brought by Alpha Prime in
the Luxembourg District Court seeking damages for alleged breach of contract and negligence in the amount of $1.16bn (plus interest). These
matters are currently pending before the Luxembourg District Court.
In November 2024, Alpha Prime served various HSBC companies with a lawsuit filed in the Bermuda Supreme Court seeking damages for
unspecified amounts for alleged breach of contract and negligence. This claim is currently stayed.

[PAGE 429]

Senator Fund SPC (‘Senator’) litigation: HSSL and the Luxembourg branch of HSBC Bank plc are defending a number of actions brought by
Senator before the Luxembourg District Court seeking restitution of securities in the amount of $625m (plus interest), or damages in the
amount of $188m (plus interest). These matters are currently pending before the Luxembourg District Court.
Based on the facts currently known, it is not practicable at this time for HSBC to predict the resolution of these matters, including the timing or
any possible impact on HSBC, which could be significant.
US Anti-Terrorism Act litigation
Since November 2014, a number of lawsuits have been filed in federal courts in the US against various HSBC companies and others on behalf
of plaintiffs who are, or are related to, alleged victims of terrorist attacks in the Middle East. In each case, it is alleged that the defendants aided
and abetted the unlawful conduct of various sanctioned parties in violation of the US Anti-Terrorism Act, or provided banking services to
customers alleged to have connections to terrorism financing. Seven actions, which seek damages for unspecified amounts, remain pending
and HSBC’s motions to dismiss have been granted in three of these cases. These dismissals are subject to appeals and/or the plaintiffs re-
pleading their claims. The four other actions are at an early stage.
Based on the facts currently known, it is not practicable at this time for HSBC to predict the resolution of these matters, including the timing or
any possible impact on HSBC, which could be significant.
Interbank offered rates investigation and litigation
Euro interest rate derivatives: In December 2016, the European Commission (‘EC’) issued a decision finding that HSBC, among other banks,
engaged in anti-competitive practices in connection with the pricing of euro interest rate derivatives, and the EC imposed a fine on HSBC based
on a one-month infringement in 2007. The fine was annulled in 2019 and a lower fine was imposed in 2021, which has been paid. In January
2023, the European Court of Justice dismissed an appeal by HSBC and upheld the EC’s findings on HSBC’s liability. In November 2024, the
General Court of the European Union rejected a separate appeal by HSBC concerning the amount of the fine. This matter is now closed.
US dollar Libor: Beginning in 2011, HSBC and other panel banks have been named as defendants in a number of individual and putative class
action lawsuits filed in federal and state courts in the US with respect to the setting of US dollar Libor. The complaints assert claims under
various US federal and state laws, including antitrust and racketeering laws and the Commodity Exchange Act (‘US CEA’). HSBC has concluded
class settlements with five groups of plaintiffs, and several class action lawsuits brought by other groups of plaintiffs have been voluntarily
dismissed. Two individual US dollar Libor-related actions seeking damages from HSBC for unspecified amounts remain pending.
Based on the facts currently known, it is not practicable at this time for HSBC to predict the resolution of the pending matters, including the
timing or any possible impact on HSBC, which could be significant.
Foreign exchange-related investigations and litigation
In December 2016, Brazil’s Administrative Council of Economic Defense initiated an investigation into the onshore foreign exchange market
and identified a number of banks, including HSBC, as subjects of its investigation, which remains ongoing. Lawsuits alleging foreign exchange-
related misconduct remain pending against HSBC and other banks in courts in Brazil.
Since 2017, HSBC Bank plc, among other financial institutions, has been defending a complaint filed by the Competition Commission of South
Africa before the South African Competition Tribunal for alleged anti-competitive behaviour in the South African foreign exchange market. In
2020, a revised complaint was filed which also named HSBC Bank USA N.A. (‘HSBC Bank USA’) as a defendant. In January 2024, the South
African Competition Appeal Court dismissed HSBC Bank USA from the revised complaint but denied HSBC Bank plc’s application to dismiss.
Both the Competition Commission and HSBC Bank plc have appealed to the Constitutional Court of South Africa.
HSBC Bank plc and HSBC Holdings have reached a settlement with plaintiffs in Israel to resolve a class action filed in the local courts alleging
foreign exchange-related misconduct. The settlement remains subject to court approval.
In February 2024, HSBC Bank plc and HSBC Holdings were joined to an existing claim brought in the UK Competition Appeals Tribunal against
various other banks alleging historical anti-competitive behaviour in the foreign exchange market and seeking approximately £3bn in damages
from all the defendants. This matter is at an early stage.
Based on the facts currently known, it is not practicable at this time for HSBC to predict the resolution of these matters, including the timing or
any possible impact on HSBC, which could be significant.
Precious metals fix-related litigation
US litigation: HSBC and other members of The London Silver Market Fixing Limited are defending a class action pending in the US District
Court for the Southern District of New York alleging that, from January 2007 to December 2013, the defendants conspired to manipulate the
price of silver and silver derivatives for their collective benefit in violation of US antitrust laws, the US CEA and New York state law. In May
2023, this action, which seeks damages for unspecified amounts, was dismissed but remains pending on appeal.
HSBC and other members of The London Platinum and Palladium Fixing Company Limited have been defending a class action in the US District
Court for the Southern District of New York alleging that, from January 2008 to November 2014, the defendants conspired to manipulate the
price of platinum group metals and related financial products for their collective benefit in violation of US antitrust laws and the US CEA. In
January 2025, the court approved a settlement reached with the plaintiffs to resolve this action. This matter is now closed.
Canada litigation: HSBC and other financial institutions are defending putative class actions filed in the Ontario and Quebec Superior Courts of
Justice alleging that the defendants conspired to manipulate the price of silver, gold and related derivatives in violation of the Canadian
Competition Act and common law. These actions each seek CA$1bn in damages plus CA$250m in punitive damages. Two of the actions are
proceeding and the others have been stayed.
Based on the facts currently known, it is not practicable at this time for HSBC to predict the resolution of the pending matters, including the
timing or any possible impact on HSBC, which could be significant.
Financial
statements

[PAGE 430]

Notes on the financial statements
Tax-related investigations
Since 2023, the French National Financial Prosecutor has been investigating a number of banks, including HSBC Continental Europe and the
Paris branch of HSBC Bank plc, in connection with alleged tax fraud related to the dividend withholding tax treatment of certain trading
activities. HSBC Bank plc and the German branch of HSBC Continental Europe also continue to cooperate with investigations by the German
public prosecutor into numerous financial institutions and their employees, in connection with the dividend withholding tax treatment of certain
trading activities.
Based on the facts currently known, it is not practicable at this time for HSBC to predict the resolution of these matters, including the timing or
any possible impact on HSBC, which could be significant.
Gilts trading investigation and litigation
Since 2018, the UK Competition and Markets Authority has been investigating HSBC and four other banks for suspected anti-competitive
conduct in relation to the historical trading of gilts and related derivatives. This matter is nearing conclusion. The impact on HSBC is not
expected to be significant.
In June 2023, HSBC Bank plc and HSBC Securities (USA) Inc., among other banks, were named as defendants in a putative class action filed in
the US District Court for the Southern District of New York by plaintiffs alleging anti-competitive conduct in the gilts market and seeking
damages for unspecified amounts. Certain of the defendants, including HSBC Bank plc and HSBC Securities (USA) Inc., have reached a
settlement with the plaintiffs to resolve this matter. The settlement remains subject to court approval. Based on the facts currently known, it is
not practicable at this time for HSBC to predict the resolution of this matter, including the timing or any possible impact on HSBC, which could
be significant.
Korean short selling indictment
In March 2024, the Korean Prosecutors’ Office issued a criminal indictment against The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited
(‘HBAP’) and three current and former employees for breaching short selling rules under the Financial Investment Services and Capital Markets
Act in connection with trades carried out between August 2021 and December 2021. In February 2025, the Korean court acquitted HBAP of all
charges. The Korean Prosecutors’ Office has the right to appeal this decision. Proceedings against the individual defendants have been
suspended.
First Citizens litigation
In May 2023, First-Citizens Bank & Trust Company (‘First Citizens’) brought a lawsuit in the US District Court for the Northern District of
California against various HSBC companies and seven US-based HSBC employees who had previously worked for Silicon Valley Bank (‘SVB’).
The lawsuit seeks $1bn in damages and alleges, among other things, that the various HSBC companies conspired with the individual
defendants to solicit employees from First Citizens and that the individual defendants took confidential information belonging to SVB and/or
First Citizens. In July 2024, the court dismissed several of First Citizens’ claims and also dismissed certain defendants for lack of jurisdiction,
but allowed limited discovery into whether some of these defendants may be subject to jurisdiction. The remaining claims are proceeding
against certain defendants.
Based on the facts currently known, it is not practicable at this time for HSBC to predict the resolution of this matter, including the timing or
any possible impact on HSBC, which could be significant.
US mortgage securitisation litigation
Beginning in 2014, a number of lawsuits were filed in various state and federal courts in the US against HSBC Bank USA, as a trustee of more
than 280 mortgage securitisation trusts, seeking unspecified damages for losses in collateral value allegedly sustained by the trusts. Nearly all
of these lawsuits have either been settled or dismissed; one action remains pending in a New York state court.
HSBC Bank USA and certain of its affiliates continue to defend a mortgage loan repurchase action seeking unspecified damages and specific
performance brought by the trustee of a mortgage securitisation trust in New York state court.
Based on the facts currently known, it is not practicable at this time for HSBC to predict the resolution of these matters, including the timing or
any possible impact on HSBC, which could be significant.
Mexican government bond litigation
HSBC Mexico S.A. and other banks are named as defendants in a consolidated putative class action pending in the US District Court for the
Southern District of New York alleging anti-competitive conduct in the Mexican government bond market between 2010 and 2014 and seeking
unspecified damages. In January 2025, the court denied the defendants’ motion to dismiss the plaintiffs’ third amended complaint, and this
action is proceeding.
Based on the facts currently known, it is not practicable at this time for HSBC to predict the resolution of this matter, including the timing or
any possible impact on HSBC, which could be significant.
Other regulatory investigations, reviews and litigation
HSBC Holdings and/or certain of its affiliates are also subject to a number of other enquiries and examinations, requests for information,
investigations and reviews by various tax authorities, regulators, competition and law enforcement authorities, as well as legal proceedings
including litigation, arbitration and other contentious proceedings, in connection with various matters arising out of their businesses and
operations.
At the present time, HSBC does not expect the ultimate resolution of any of these matters to be material to the Group’s financial position;
however, given the uncertainties involved in legal proceedings and regulatory matters, there can be no assurance regarding the eventual
outcome of a particular matter or matters.

[PAGE 431]

36 Related party transactions
Related parties of the Group and HSBC Holdings include subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures, post-employment benefit plans for HSBC
employees, Key Management Personnel (‘KMP’) as defined by IAS 24, close family members of KMP and entities that are controlled or jointly
controlled by KMP or their close family members. KMP are defined as those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing
and controlling the activities of HSBC Holdings. These individuals also constitute ‘senior management’ for the purposes of the Hong Kong
Listing Rules. In applying IAS 24, it was determined that for this financial reporting period KMP included Directors, former Directors and senior
management listed on pages 237 to 243 except for the roles of Group Chief Legal Officer, Group Head of Internal Audit, Group Chief Human
Resources Officer, Group Chief Sustainability Officer, Group Chief Communications and Brand Officer, and Group Chief People & Governance
Officer who do not meet the criteria for KMP as provided for in the standard.
Particulars of transactions with related parties are tabulated below. The disclosure of the year-end balance and the highest amounts outstanding during
the year is considered to be the most meaningful information to represent the amount of the transactions and outstanding balances during the year.
Key Management Personnel
Details of Directors’ remuneration and interests in shares are disclosed in the ‘Directors’ remuneration report’ on pages 279 to 317.
IAS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’ requires the following additional information for key management compensation.
Compensation of Key Management Personnel
2024 2023 2022
$m $m $m
Short-term employee benefits 53 51 52
Post-employment benefits 1 1 1
Other long-term employee benefits 12 10 8
Share-based payments 29 29 26
Year ended 31 Dec 95 91 87
Shareholdings, options and other securities of Key Management Personnel
2024 2023
(000s) (000s)
Number of options held over HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under employee share plans 20 32
Number of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares held beneficially and non-beneficially 17,455 20,409
Number of other HSBC securities held 228 228
At 31 Dec 17,703 20,669
Advances and credits, guarantees and deposit balances during the year with Key Management Personnel
2024 2023
Highest amounts Highest amounts
Balance at outstanding Balance at outstanding
31 Dec during year 31 Dec during year
$m $m $m $m
Key Management Personnel
Advances and credits1 9 12 11 16
Deposits 78 191 60 130
1 Advances and credits entered into by subsidiaries of HSBC Holdings plc during 2024 with Directors and former Directors, disclosed pursuant to section 413 of
the Companies Act 2006, totalled $1.3m (2023: $2.6m).
Unless previously disclosed, there were no connected transactions during the reporting period that fell outside the exemptions provided by the
Companies Act 2006, the UK Financial Conduct Authority’s Listing Rules and the Rules Governing The Listing of Securities on The Stock
Exchange of Hong Kong Limited. The transactions conducted were in the ordinary course of business and on substantially the same terms,
including interest rates and security, as for comparable transactions with parties of a similar standing or, where applicable, with other
employees. These transactions did not involve more than the normal risk of repayment or present other unfavourable features.
Associates and joint ventures
The Group provides certain banking and financial services to associates and joint ventures including loans, overdrafts, interest and non-interest
bearing deposits and current accounts. Details of the interests in associates and joint ventures are given in Note 18.
Transactions and balances during the year with associates and joint ventures
2024 2023
Highest balance Balance at Highest balance Balance at
during the year 31 Dec during the year 31 Dec
$m $m $m $m
Unsubordinated amounts due from joint ventures 104 72 98 94
Unsubordinated amounts due from associates 8,097 5,011 7,907 5,910
Amounts due to associates 2,992 1,844 3,002 1,668
Amounts due to joint ventures 101 85 95 61
Fair value of derivative assets with associates 919 763 1,514 795
Fair value of derivative liabilities with associates 3,718 2,641 4,388 2,962
Guarantees and commitments 569 577 503 331
The above outstanding balances arose in the ordinary course of business and on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and
security, as for comparable transactions with third-party counterparties.
Financial
statements

[PAGE 432]

Notes on the financial statements
Post-employment benefit plans
At 31 December 2024, $3.4bn (2023: $3.1bn) of HSBC post-employment benefit plan assets were under management by HSBC companies,
earning management fees of $14m in 2024 (2023: $13m). At 31 December 2024, HSBC’s post-employment benefit plans had placed deposits
of $395m (2023: $402m) with its banking subsidiaries, earning interest payable to the schemes of $2m (2023: $2m). The above outstanding
balances arose from the ordinary course of business and on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and security, as for
comparable transactions with third-party counterparties.
The combined HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme enters into swap transactions with HSBC to manage inflation and interest rate sensitivity of
its liabilities and selected assets. At 31 December 2024, the gross notional value of the swaps was $6.4bn (2023: $7.1bn). These swaps had a
positive fair value to the scheme of $0.4bn (2023: $0.5bn); and HSBC had delivered collateral of $0.4bn (2023: $0.6bn) to the scheme in respect
of these arrangements. All swaps were executed at prevailing market rates and within standard market bid/offer spreads.
HSBC Holdings
Details of HSBC Holdings’ subsidiaries are shown in Note 38.
Transactions and balances during the year with subsidiaries
2024 2023
Highest balance Balance at Highest balance Balance at
during the year 31 Dec during the year 31 Dec
$m $m $m $m
Assets
Cash and balances with HSBC undertakings 9,342 2,548 8,396 7,029
Financial assets with HSBC undertakings designated and otherwise mandatorily
measured at fair value 66,030 61,286 60,309 59,879
Derivatives 3,391 3,054 4,010 3,344
Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings 37,677 37,677 28,213 27,354
Prepayments, accrued income and other assets 7,108 4,216 7,417 5,145
Investments in subsidiaries 160,805 152,337 167,542 159,478
Total related party assets at 31 Dec 284,353 261,118 275,887 262,229
Liabilities
Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings 231 231 179 168
Derivatives 7,944 5,340 9,309 6,090
Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities 399 194 505 341
Subordinated liabilities 1,202 — 927 913
Total related party liabilities at 31 Dec 9,776 5,765 10,920 7,512
Guarantees and commitments 7,440 7,327 7,723 7,723
The above outstanding balances arose in the ordinary course of business and on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and
security, as for comparable transactions with third-party counterparties.
Some employees of HSBC Holdings are members of the HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme, which is sponsored by a separate Group company.
HSBC Holdings incurs a charge for these employees equal to the contributions paid into the scheme on their behalf. Disclosure in relation to
the scheme is made in Note 5.
37 Events after the balance sheet date
A fourth interim dividend for 2024 of $0.36 per ordinary share (a distribution of approximately $6.4bn was approved by the Directors after
31 December 2024. On 19 February 2025, HSBC Holdings announced a share buy-back to purchase its ordinary shares up to a maximum
consideration of $2.0bn, which is expected to commence shortly and complete by our first quarter 2025 results announcement. On 30 January
2025, HSBC Holdings called $1,750m 2.999% fixed rate/floating rate senior unsecured and $500m floating rate senior unsecured securities.
These securities are expected to be redeemed and cancelled on 10 March 2025. On 7 February 2025, HSBC Holdings called $2,450m 6.375%
perpetual subordinated contingent convertible securities which are expected to be redeemed and cancelled on 30 March 2025. The accounts
were approved by the Board of Directors on 19 February 2025 and authorised for issue.
38 HSBC Holdings’ subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates
In accordance with section 409 of the Companies Act 2006 a list of HSBC Holdings plc subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, the
registered office addresses and the effective percentages of equity owned at 31 December 2024 are disclosed below.
Unless otherwise stated, the share capital comprises ordinary or common shares that are held by Group subsidiaries. The ownership
percentage is provided for each undertaking. The undertakings below are consolidated by HSBC unless otherwise indicated.

[PAGE 433]

Subsidiaries
% of share class % of share class
held by immediate held by immediate
parent company parent company
(or by the Group (or by the Group
Subsidiaries where this varies) Footnotes Subsidiaries where this varies) Footnotes
AI Nominees (UK) One Limited 100.00 12 Giller Ltd. 100.00 24
AI Nominees (UK) Two Limited 100.00 12 GPIF Co-Investment, LLC N/A 1, 25
Almacenadora Banpacifico S.A. (In N/A 1, 13 Griffin International Limited 100.00 12
Liquidation) Grupo Financiero HSBC, S. A. de C. V. 99.99 13
Assetfinance December (F) Limited 100.00 14 Guangdong Enping HSBC Rural Bank 100.00 11, 38
Assetfinance December (H) Limited 100.00 12 Company Limited
Assetfinance December (P) Limited 100.00 12 Guangzhou HSBC Real Estate Company Ltd 100.00 11, 39
Assetfinance December (R) Limited 100.00 12 H5 LP Inc N/A 107
Assetfinance June (A) Limited 100.00 12 H8 LP Inc N/A 107
Assetfinance June (D) Limited 100.00 14 H9 LP Inc N/A 107
Assetfinance March (B) Limited 100.00 15 Hang Seng (Nominee) Limited 100.00 (63.12) 37
Assetfinance March (D) Limited 100.00 14 Hang Seng Bank (China) Limited 100.00 (63.12) 11, 40
Assetfinance March (F) Limited 100.00 12 Hang Seng Bank (Trustee) Limited 100.00 (63.12) 37
Assetfinance September (F) Limited 100.00 12 Hang Seng Bank Limited 63.12 37
Assetfinance September (G) Limited 100.00 14 Hang Seng Bullion Company Limited 100.00 (63.12) 37
B&Q Financial Services Limited 100.00 12 Hang Seng Credit Limited 100.00 (63.12) 37
Banco HSBC S.A. 100.00 16 Hang Seng Data Services Limited 100.00 (63.12) 37
Banco Nominees (Guernsey) Limited 100.00 17 Hang Seng Finance Limited 100.00 (63.12) 37
Banco Nominees 2 (Guernsey) Limited 100.00 17 Hang Seng Financial Information Limited 100.00 (63.12) 37
Banco Nominees Limited 100.00 18 Hang Seng Indexes (Netherlands) B.V. N/A 1, 41
Beau Soleil Limited Partnership N/A 1, 19 Hang Seng Indexes Company Limited 100.00 (63.12) 37
Beijing HSBC Real Estate Leasing Company N/A 1, 20 Hang Seng Insurance Company Limited 100.00 (63.12) 37
Limited Hang Seng Investment Management Limited 100.00 (63.12) 37
Beijing Miyun HSBC Rural Bank Company 100.00 11, 21 Hang Seng Investment Services Limited 100.00 (63.12) 37
Limited Hang Seng Japan Topix 100 Index ETF 66.43 19
BentallGreenOak China Real Estate N/A 1, 22
Hang Seng Qianhai Fund Management 70.00 (43.86) 11, 42
Investments, L.P.
Company Limited
Canada Crescent Nominees (UK) Limited (In 100.00 23
Liquidation) Hang Seng Real Estate Management Limited 100.00 (63.12) 37
Hang Seng Securities Limited 100.00 (63.12) 37
Canada Square Nominees (UK) Limited 100.00 12
Hang Seng Security Management Limited 100.00 (63.12) 37
Capco/Cove, Inc. 100.00 24 HASE Wealth Limited N/A 137
Card-Flo #3, Inc. 100.00 25 Haseba Investment Company Limited 100.00 (63.12) 37
CC&H Holdings LLC N/A 1, 26 HBPH Corporation (In Dissolution) 99.99 43
CCF & Partners Asset Management Limited 100.00 (99.99) 12 HFC Bank Limited (In Liquidation) 100.00 44
Charterhouse Administrators (D.T.) Limited 100.00 (99.99) 12 High Time Investments Limited 100.00 (63.12) 37
Charterhouse Management Services Limited 100.00 (99.99) 12 HLF 100.00 (99.99) 5, 34
Charterhouse Pensions Limited 100.00 12 Honey Blue Enterprises Limited (亨京企業有 100.00
Chongqing Dazu HSBC Rural Bank Company 100.00 11, 28 限公司) 19
Limited Honey Green Enterprises Ltd. 100.00 45
Chongqing Fengdu HSBC Rural Bank 100.00 11, 29 Honey Grey Enterprises Limited (亨穗企業有 100.00
Company Limited 限公司) 19
Chongqing Rongchang HSBC Rural Bank 100.00 11, 30 Honey Silver Enterprises Limited 100.00 19
Company Limited Household International Europe Limited (In 100.00
CI 10 LP Inc N/A 107 Liquidation) 44
COIF Nominees Limited N/A 1, 12 Household Pooling Corporation 100.00 47
Corsair IV Financial Services Capital Partners - N/A Housing (USA) LLP N/A 1, 25
B L.P 1, 31 HSBC (BGF) Investments Limited 100.00 12
D9 LP Inc N/A 107 HSBC (General Partner) Limited 100.00 3, 48
Dalian Pulandian HSBC Rural Bank Company 100.00 11, 32 HSBC (Guernsey) GP PCC Limited 100.00 17
Limited HSBC (Kuala Lumpur) Nominees Sdn Bhd 100.00 49
Decision One Mortgage Company, LLC N/A 1, 33 HSBC (Malaysia) Trustee Berhad 100.00 50
Dempar 1 100.00 (99.99) 5, 34 HSBC (Singapore) Nominees Pte Ltd 100.00 51
HSBC Actions Europe 50.66 175
Desarrollo Turistico, S.A. de C.V. (In 100.00 (99.99) 13
HSBC Agency (India) Private Limited 100.00 52
Liquidation)
HSBC Alternative Investments Limited 100.00 12
Electronic Data Process México, S.A. de C.V. 100.00 35
HSBC Amanah Malaysia Berhad 100.00 49
ERISA Actions Europe N°2 N/A 1, 175
HSBC Americas Corporation (Delaware) 100.00 25
ERISA Actions Grandes Valeurs N/A 1, 175
HSBC Asia Holdings B.V. 100.00 12
ERISA Opportunities N/A 1, 175
HSBC Asia Holdings Limited 100.00 3, 19
Eton Corporate Services Limited 100.00 17
Flandres Contentieux S.A. 100.00 (99.99) 5, 34 HSBC Asia Pacific Holdings (UK) Limited 100.00 6, 12
Foncière Elysées 100.00 (99.99) 5, 34 HSBC Asset Finance (UK) Limited 100.00 12
Fujian Yongan HSBC Rural Bank Company 100.00 11, 36 HSBC Asset Finance M.O.G. Holdings (UK) 100.00
Limited Limited 12
Fulcher Enterprises Company Limited 100.00 (63.12) 37 HSBC Asset Management (Fund Services UK) 100.00
Fundacion HSBC, A.C. 100.00 (99.99) 2, 9, 13 Limited 12
Financial
statements

[PAGE 434]

Notes on the financial statements
% of share class % of share class
held by immediate held by immediate
parent company parent company
(or by the Group (or by the Group
Subsidiaries where this varies) Footnotes Subsidiaries where this varies) Footnotes
HSBC Asset Management (India) Private 99.99 HSBC Electronic Data Processing 100.00 11, 74
Limited 53 (Guangdong) Limited
HSBC Asset Management (Japan) Limited 100.00 54 HSBC Electronic Data Processing (Malaysia) 100.00 75
HSBC Assurances Vie (France) 100.00 (99.99) 5, 55 Sdn Bhd
HSBC Australia Holdings Pty Limited 100.00 6, 56 HSBC Electronic Data Processing 99.99 76
(Philippines), Inc.
HSBC BANK (CHILE) 100.00 57
HSBC Electronic Data Processing India 100.00
HSBC Bank (China) Company Limited 100.00 11, 58 Private Limited 77
HSBC Bank (General Partner) Limited 100.00 48 HSBC Electronic Data Processing Lanka 100.00
HSBC Bank (Mauritius) Limited 100.00 59 (Private) Limited 78
HSBC Bank (Singapore) Limited 100.00 51 HSBC Electronic Data Service Delivery 100.00
(Egypt) S.A.E 79
HSBC Bank (Taiwan) Limited 100.00 60
HSBC Equipment Finance (UK) Limited 100.00 14
HSBC Bank (Uruguay) S.A. 100.00 61 HSBC Equity (UK) Limited 100.00 12
HSBC Bank (Vietnam) Ltd. 100.00 62 HSBC EURO Protect 80+ 78.06 55
HSBC Bank A.S. 100.00 63 HSBC Europe B.V. 100.00 12
HSBC Bank Australia Limited 100.00 56 HSBC European Senior Direct Lending Fund 43.00
HSBC Bank Bermuda Limited 100.00 18 2023 RAIF SICAV-S.A. 91
HSBC Bank Capital Funding (Sterling 1) LP N/A 1, 48 HSBC Executor & Trustee Company (UK) 100.00
HSBC Bank Egypt S.A.E 94.54 64 Limited 14
HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad 100.00 4, 49 HSBC Factoring (France) 100.00 (99.99) 5, 34
HSBC Finance (Netherlands) 100.00 3, 12
HSBC Bank Malta p.l.c. 70.03 65
HSBC Finance Corporation 100.00 25
HSBC Bank Middle East Limited 100.00 4, 66 HSBC Finance Limited 100.00 12
HSBC Bank Middle East Limited 100.00 67 HSBC Finance Transformation (UK) Limited 100.00 12
Representative Office Morocco SARL (In
HSBC Financial Advisors Singapore Pte. Ltd. 100.00 2, 51
Liquidation)
HSBC Financial Services (Lebanon) S.A.L 99.83 80
HSBC Bank Pension Trust (UK) Limited 100.00 12 HSBC Financial Technology Venture Capital 100.00 177
HSBC Bank plc 100.00 3, 4, 12 Fund SCSp
HSBC Bank USA, National Association 100.00 4, 68 HSBC FinTech Services (Shanghai) Company N/A 1, 2, 81
Limited
HSBC Branch Nominee (UK) Limited 100.00 14
HSBC Global Asset Management (Bermuda) 100.00 4, 18
HSBC Brasil Holding S.A. 100.00 16 Limited
HSBC Broking Forex (Asia) Limited 100.00 19 HSBC Global Asset Management 100.00 (99.99)
HSBC Broking Futures (Asia) Limited 100.00 19 (Deutschland) GmbH 7, 82
HSBC Broking Futures (Hong Kong) Limited 100.00 19 HSBC Global Asset Management (France) 100.00 (99.99) 5, 55
HSBC Broking Securities (Asia) Limited 100.00 19 H Ko S n B g C ) L G im lob it a e l d Asset Management (Hong 100.00 83
HSBC Broking Securities (Hong Kong) Limited 100.00 19 HSBC Global Asset Management (Malta) 100.00 (70.03) 84
HSBC Broking Services (Asia) Limited 100.00 19 Limited
HSBC Capital (USA), Inc. 100.00 25 HSBC Global Asset Management (México), 100.00 (99.99) 13
HSBC Capital Funding (Dollar 1) L.P. N/A 1, 48 S.A. de C.V., Sociedad Operadora de Fondos
HSBC Card Services Inc. 100.00 25 de Inversión, Grupo Financiero HSBC
HSBC Casa de Bolsa, S.A. de C.V., Grupo 100.00 (99.99) HSBC Global Asset Management (Singapore) 100.00 51
Financiero HSBC 13 Limited
HSBC Cayman Limited 100.00 69 HSBC Global Asset Management 100.00 5, 171
(Switzerland) AG
HSBC Cayman Services Limited 100.00 69 HSBC Global Asset Management (Taiwan) 100.00 86
HSBC Client Holdings Nominee (UK) Limited 100.00 12 Limited
HSBC Client Nominee (Jersey) Limited 100.00 2, 70 HSBC Global Asset Management (UK) 100.00
HSBC Climate Tech Venture Capital Fund 87.15 Limited 12
SCSp 177 HSBC Global Asset Management (USA) Inc. 100.00 87
HSBC Columbia Funding, LLC N/A 125 HSBC Global Asset Management Holdings 100.00 88
HSBC Continental Europe 99.99 5, 34 (Bahamas) Limited
HSBC Corporate Advisory (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd 100.00 49 HSBC Global Asset Management Limited 100.00 3, 12
HSBC Corporate Finance (Hong Kong) Limited 100.00 19 HSBC Global Custody Nominee (UK) Limited 100.00 12
HSBC Corporate Secretary (UK) Limited 100.00 3, 12 HSBC Global Custody Proprietary Nominee 100.00 12
(UK) Limited
HSBC Corporate Services (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. N/A 1, 71 HSBC Global Funds ICAV - Digital Leaders 100.00 27
HSBC Corporate Trustee Company (UK) 100.00 Equity Fund
Limited 12 HSBC Global Funds ICAV - Euro Lower 100.00 27
HSBC Custody Nominees (Australia) Limited 100.00 56 Carbon Government 10+ Year Bond UCITS
HSBC Custody Services (Guernsey) Limited 100.00 17 ETF
HSBC Daisy Investments (Mauritius) Limited 100.00 72 HSBC Global Funds ICAV - Euro Lower 100.00 27
Carbon Government 1-3 Year Bond UCITS
HSBC Diversified Loan Fund General Partner N/A 1, 73 ETF
Sarl
HSBC Global Funds ICAV - Global Aggregate 100.00 27
HSBC Diversified Loan SCSp-RAIF N/A 73 Bond ESG UCITS ETF

[PAGE 435]

% of share class % of share class
held by immediate held by immediate
parent company parent company
(or by the Group (or by the Group
Subsidiaries where this varies) Footnotes Subsidiaries where this varies) Footnotes
HSBC Global Funds ICAV - Global Equity N/A 1, 176 HSBC Investment and Insurance Brokerage, 99.99 104
Index Fund -ACEUR Philippines Inc.
HSBC Global Funds ICAV - Japan Equity Index 99.77 105 HSBC Investment Bank Holdings B.V. 100.00 12
Fund HSBC Investment Bank Holdings Limited 100.00 12
HSBC Global Infrastructure Debt Fund Feeder N/A 1, 91 HSBC Investment Company Limited 100.00 3, 12
SCA SICAV-RAIF- Global Infrastructure Debt HSBC Investment Funds (Hong Kong) Limited 100.00 83
EUR HSBC Investment Funds (Luxembourg) SA 100.00 105
HSBC GLOBAL INVESTMENT FUNDS - ASIA 93.03 129 HSBC Invoice Finance (UK) Limited 100.00 14
ESG BOND
HSBC Issuer Services Common Depositary 100.00 12
HSBC Global Investment Funds – ESG Short 74.22 129 Nominee (UK) Limited
Duration Credit Bond
HSBC Latin America B.V. 100.00 12
HSBC GLOBAL INVESTMENT FUNDS - 56.47 129
HSBC Latin America Holdings (UK) Limited 100.00 3, 12
GLOBAL EMERGING MARKETS EQUITY
HSBC Leasing (Asia) Limited 100.00 19
HSBC Global Investment Funds - Strategic 100.00 129
HSBC Legacy Partnership Limited 100.00 12
Duration and Income Bond
HSBC Life (Bermuda) Limited 100.00 18
HSBC Global Multi-asset Seeding course 67.39 54
(Stable Type) HSBC Life (Cornell Centre) Limited 100.00 95
HSBC Life (Edwick Centre) Limited 100.00 95
HSBC Global Services (Canada) Limited 100.00 89
HSBC Life (International) Limited 100.00 18
HSBC Global Services (China) Holdings 100.00 12
Limited HSBC Life (Property) Limited 100.00 95
HSBC Global Services (Hong Kong) Limited 100.00 19 HSBC Life (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. 100.00 51
HSBC Global Services (UK) Limited 100.00 12 HSBC Life (Tsing Yi Industrial) Limited 100.00 95
HSBC Global Services Limited 100.00 3, 12 HSBC Life (UK) Limited 100.00 12
HSBC Global Transition Infrastructure Debt 31.00 91 HSBC Life (Workshop) Limited 100.00 95
Fund RAIF SICAV-S.A. HSBC Life Assurance (Malta) Ltd. 100.00 (70.03) 84
HSBC Group Management Services Limited 100.00 12 HSBC Life Insurance Company Limited 100.00 11, 106
HSBC Group Nominees UK Limited 100.00 3, 12 HSBC LU Nominees Limited 100.00 12
HSBC Holdings B.V. 100.00 12 HSBC Management (Guernsey) Limited 100.00 107
HSBC Horizon 2034 2036 A 3D 76.72 175 HSBC Markets (USA) Inc. 100.00 25
HSBC India Small Cap Equity Fund (QII） 40.38 54 HSBC Marking Name Nominee (UK) Limited 100.00 12
HSBC Infrastructure Debt GP 1 S.à r.l. N/A 1, 91 HSBC Master Trust Trustee Limited (In 100.00 23
HSBC Infrastructure Debt GP 2 S.à r.l. N/A 1, 91 Liquidation)
HSBC Innovation Bank Limited 100.00 92 HSBC Mexico, S.A., Institucion de Banca 99.99 13
Multiple, Grupo Financiero HSBC
HSBC INSN (Non Operating) Pte. Ltd. (In 100.00 51
Liquidation) HSBC Middle East Asset CO. LLC 100.00 108
HSBC Middle East Holdings B.V. 100.00 3, 4, 66
HSBC Institutional Trust Services (Asia) 100.00 19
Limited HSBC Middle East Leasing Partnership N/A 1, 109
HSBC Institutional Trust Services (Bermuda) 100.00 18 HSBC Middle East Securities L.L.C 100.00 110
Limited HSBC Mix Dynamique 58.13 55
HSBC Institutional Trust Services (Mauritius) 100.00 93 HSBC Mortgage Corporation (USA) 100.00 25
Limited HSBC Multi-Asset Style Factors S N/A 1, 175
HSBC Institutional Trust Services (Singapore) 100.00 51 HSBC Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd 100.00 49
Limited HSBC Nominees (Hong Kong) Limited 100.00 19
HSBC Insurance (Asia) Limited 100.00 95 HSBC Nominees (New Zealand) Limited 100.00 111
HSBC Insurance (Asia-Pacific) Holdings 100.00 83 HSBC Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd 100.00 49
Limited HSBC North America Holdings Inc. 100.00 4, 25
HSBC Insurance (Bermuda) Limited 100.00 96 HSBC Operational Services GmbH 100.00 (99.99) 7, 82
HSBC Insurance Agency (USA) Inc. 100.00 97 HSBC Overseas Holdings (UK) Limited 100.00 3, 12
HSBC Insurance Brokerage Company Limited N/A 1,2, 98 HSBC Overseas Investments Corporation 100.00 112
HSBC Insurance Brokers Greater China 100.00 83 (New York)
Limited HSBC Overseas Nominee (UK) Limited 100.00 12
HSBC Insurance SAC 1 (Bermuda) Limited 100.00 18 HSBC PB Corporate Services 1 Limited 100.00 113
HSBC Insurance SAC 2 (Bermuda) Limited 100.00 18 HSBC PB Services (Suisse) SA 100.00 114
HSBC Insurance Services Holdings Limited 100.00 HSBC Pension Trust (Ireland) DAC 100.00 115
(In Liquidation) 23 HSBC Pensiones, S.A. (In Liquidation) 100.00 (99.99) 13
HSBC International Finance Corporation 100.00 100 HSBC PI Holdings (Mauritius) Limited 100.00 116
(Delaware) HSBC Portfolios – World Selection 5 (Part N/A 1, 105
HSBC International Trustee (BVI) Limited 100.00 10, 101 ACHEUR)
HSBC International Trustee (Holdings) Pte. 100.00 51 HSBC Portfoy Yonetimi A.S. 100.00 117
Limited HSBC Preferential LP (UK) 100.00 12
HSBC International Trustee Limited 100.00 102 HSBC Private Bank (Luxembourg) S.A. 100.00 (99.99) 105
HSBC Inversiones S.A. 100.00 57 HSBC Private Bank (Suisse) SA 100.00 114
HSBC InvestDirect (India) Private Limited 99.99 53 HSBC Private Bank (UK) Limited 100.00 12
HSBC InvestDirect Financial Services (India) 99.99 53 HSBC Private Banking Holdings (Suisse) SA 100.00 114
Limited HSBC Private Banking Nominee 3 (Jersey) 100.00
HSBC InvestDirect Sales & Marketing (India) 98.99 (98.98) 103 Limited 113
Private Limited HSBC Private Equity Investments (UK) 100.00
HSBC InvestDirect Securities (India) Private 99.99 53 Limited 12
Limited HSBC Private Markets Management SARL N/A 1, 2, 118
Financial
statements

[PAGE 436]

Notes on the financial statements
% of share class % of share class
held by immediate held by immediate
parent company parent company
(or by the Group (or by the Group
Subsidiaries where this varies) Footnotes Subsidiaries where this varies) Footnotes
HSBC Private Trustee (Hong Kong) Limited 100.00 19 HSBC Software Development (Malaysia) Sdn 100.00 75
HSBC Professional Services (India) Private 100.00 119 Bhd
Limited HSBC Specialist Investments Limited 100.00 6, 12
HSBC Property (UK) Limited 100.00 12 HSBC Technology & Services (China) Limited N/A 1, 128
HSBC Property Funds (Holding) Limited 100.00 12 (In Liquidation)
HSBC Provident Fund Trustee (Hong Kong) 100.00 HSBC Technology & Services (USA) Inc. 100.00 25
Limited 19 HSBC Transaction Services GmbH 100.00 (99.99) 7, 82
HSBC Qianhai Securities Limited 90.00 11, 120 HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt (International) 100.00 (99.99) 129
HSBC RCF Partnership Fund RAIF SICAV-S.A. 11.00 175 S.A.
HSBC Real Estate Leasing (France) 100.00 (99.99) 5, 34 HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt Gesellschaft fur 100.00 (99.99) 82
Bankbeteiligungen mbH
HSBC REGIO Fund General Partner S.à r.l. 100.00 91
HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt GmbH 100.00 (99.99) 7, 82
HSBC REIM (France) 100.00 (99.99) 5, 55
HSBC Trinkaus Family Office GmbH 100.00 (99.99) 7, 82
HSBC Responsible Investment Funds - SRI 64.14 55
Balanced HSBC Trinkaus Real Estate GmbH 100.00 (99.99) 7, 82
HSBC Trust Company (Delaware), National 100.00 100
HSBC Responsible Investment Funds - SRI 72.79 55
Association
Dynamic
HSBC Resposible Investment Funds - SRI N/A 1, 175 HSBC Trust Company (UK) Limited 100.00 12
Global Equity A HSBC Trustee (C.I.) Limited 100.00 113
HSBC Retirement Benefits Trustee (UK) 100.00 HSBC Trustee (Cayman) Limited 100.00 69
Limited 3, 12 HSBC Trustee (Guernsey) Limited 100.00 17
HSBC Retirement Services Limited (In 100.00 23 HSBC Trustee (Hong Kong) Limited 100.00 19
Liquidation) HSBC Trustee (Singapore) Limited 100.00 51
HSBC Saudi Arabia, Closed Joint Stock 100.00 (66.19) 121 HSBC Trustees (India) Private Limited 99.99 103
Company
HSBC UK Bank plc 100.00 3, 14
HSBC Securities (Egypt) S.A.E. (In 100.00 (94.65) 122
Liquidation) HSBC UK Client Nominee Limited 100.00 14
HSBC UK Covered Bonds LLP N/A 1, 14
HSBC Securities (Japan) Co., Ltd. 100.00 54
HSBC UK Societal Projects Limited N/A 1, 14
HSBC Securities (Singapore) Pte Limited 100.00 51
HSBC USA Inc. 100.00 4, 112
HSBC Securities (South Africa) (Pty) Limited 100.00 123
HSBC Securities (Taiwan) Corporation Limited 100.00 60 HSBC Ventures USA Inc. 100.00 25
HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. 100.00 25 HSBC Violet Investments (Mauritius) Limited 100.00 72
HSBC Securities and Capital Markets (India) 99.99 6, 103 HSBC Wealth Client Nominee Limited 100.00 14
Private Limited HSBC World Equity Protect 80 98.87 55
HSBC Securities Brokers (Asia) Limited 100.00 19 HSBC Yatirim Menkul Degerler A.S. 100.00 63
HSBC Securities Investments (Asia) Limited 100.00 19 HSI Asset Securitization Corporation 100.00 25
HSBC Securities Services (Bermuda) Limited 100.00 18 HSI International Limited 100.00 (63.12) 37
HSBC Securities Services (Guernsey) Limited 100.00 17 HSIL Investments Limited 100.00 12
Hubei Macheng HSBC Rural Bank Company 100.00 11, 131
HSBC Securities Services (Ireland) DAC 100.00 115 Limited
HSBC Securities Services (Luxembourg) S.A. 100.00 105 Hubei Suizhou Cengdu HSBC Rural Bank 100.00 11, 132
HSBC Securities Services Holdings (Ireland) 100.00 115 Company Limited
DAC
Hubei Tianmen HSBC Rural Bank Company 100.00 11, 133
HSBC Securities Services Nominees Limited 100.00 19 Limited
HSBC Seguros, S.A de C.V., Grupo Financiero 100.00 (99.99) 13 Hunan Pingjiang HSBC Rural Bank Company 100.00 11, 134
HSBC Limited
HSBC Select Dynamic 80.59 55 I3 LP Inc. N/A 107
HSBC Select Equity 86.38 55 Imenson Limited 100.00 (63.12) 37
HSBC Select Flexible 63.93 55 INHK PC LP Inc 100.00 17
HSBC Semfi Limited 75.00 12 INHK PE LP Inc 100.00 17
HSBC Senior UK Direct Lending 2020 RAIF N/A 91 Inmobiliaria Bisa, S.A. de C.V. 99.99 13
SICAV-S.A Inmobiliaria Grufin, S.A. de C.V. 100.00 (99.99) 13
HSBC Senior UK Direct Lending Fund II RAIF 72.46 91 Inmobiliaria Guatusi, S.A. de C.V. 100.00 (99.99) 13
SICAV-S.A. Internationale Kapitalanlagegesellschaft mit 100.00 (99.99) 82
HSBC Service Company Germany GmbH 100.00 (99.99) 7, 82 beschränkter Haftung
HSBC Service Delivery (Polska) Sp. z o.o. 100.00 124 J6 LP Inc N/A 107
HSBC Services (France) 100.00 (99.99) 5, 34 James Capel (Nominees) Limited 100.00 12
HSBC Services Japan Limited 100.00 88 James Capel (Taiwan) Nominees Limited 100.00 12
HSBC Services USA Inc. 100.00 125 Keyser Ullmann Limited 100.00 (99.99) 12
HSBC Servicios Financieros, S.A. de C.V 100.00 (99.99) 13 L1 LP Inc N/A 107
HSBC Servicios, S.A. DE C.V., Grupo 100.00 (99.99) Lion Corporate Services Limited 100.00 19
Financiero HSBC 13 Lion International Corporate Services Limited 100.00 135
HSBC SFT (C.I.) Limited 100.00 17 Lion International Management Limited 100.00 135
HSBC Singapore Dollar Liquidity Fund 76.37 51 Lion Management (Hong Kong) Limited 100.00 19
HSBC Small Cap France 52.70 55 Lyndholme Limited 100.00 19
HSBC Software Development (Guangdong) 100.00 11, 126 Marks and Spencer Financial Services plc 100.00 136
Limited Marks and Spencer Unit Trust Management 100.00
HSBC Software Development (India) Private 100.00 127 Limited 136
Limited Midcorp Limited 100.00 12
Midland Bank (Branch Nominees) Limited 100.00 14

[PAGE 437]

% of share class % of share class
held by immediate held by immediate
parent company parent company
(or by the Group (or by the Group
Subsidiaries where this varies) Footnotes Subsidiaries where this varies) Footnotes
Midland Nominees Limited 100.00 14 W4 LP Inc N/A 107
MP Payments Group Limited 100.00 12 WARDLEY LIMITED 100.00 19
MP Payments Middle East AE L.L.C. 100.00 137 Wayfoong Nominees Limited 100.00 19
MP Payments Netherlands B.V. 100.00 138 Westminster House, LLC N/A 1, 25
MP Payments Operations Limited 100.00 12 Woodex Limited 100.00 18
MP Payments Singapore Pte. Ltd. 100.00 51 Yan Nin Development Company Limited 100.00 (63.12) 37
MP Payments UK Limited 100.00 12
P2 LP Inc N/A 107 Joint ventures
Prudential Client HSBC GIS Nominee (UK) 100.00 12
Limited The undertakings below are joint ventures and equity accounted.
PT Bank HSBC Indonesia 98.94 139
PT HSBC Sekuritas Indonesia 85.00 140
R/CLIP Corp. 100.00 25 % of share class
Real Estate Collateral Management Company 100.00 25 held by immediate
parent company (or
Red Hexagon Energy Transition Asia GP S.à 100.00 2, 91
by the Group
r.l.
Joint ventures where this varies) Footnotes
Republic Nominees Limited 100.00 17
RLUKREF Nominees (UK) One Limited 100.00 12 Climate Asset Management Limited N/A 1,2, 152
RLUKREF Nominees (UK) Two Limited 100.00 12 Global Payments Technology México, S.A. de 50.00 (49.99) 2, 153
C.V.
S.A.P.C. - Ufipro Recouvrement 99.99 9, 34
Saf Baiyun 100.00 (99.99) 5, 34 MK HoldCo Limited 50.32 2, 154
Pentagreen Capital Pte. Ltd 50.00 155
Saf Guangzhou 100.00 (99.99) 5, 34
ProServe Bermuda Limited 50.00 156
SCI HSBC Assurances Immo 100.00 (99.99) 9, 55
SCPI Elysees Grand Large 98.50 175 The London Silver Market Fixing Limited N/A 1,2, 157
Select INKA N/A 1, 82 Vaultex UK Limited 50.00 158
Serai Limited 100.00 19
Non-Profit Foundation
SFM 100.00 (99.99) 5, 34
SFSS Nominees (Pty) Limited 100.00 123 The undertakings below are Non-Profit Foundation.
Shandong Rongcheng HSBC Rural Bank 100.00 11, 141
Company Limited
% of share class
Shenzhen HSBC Development Company Ltd 100.00 11, 142 held by
Sico Limited 100.00 143 immediate parent
SilkRoad Fund Management S.à.r.l 100.00 2, 144 company (or by
Silkroad GP II Limited 100.00 2, 145 the Group where
Silkroad GP II S.a.r.l. 100.00 2, 144 Non-Profit Foundation this varies) Footnotes
Silkroad GP Limited 100.00 2, 69 HSBC Philanthropy Foundation Beijing N/A 1, 175
Silkroad GP SC S.a r.l 100.00 2, 146
Silkroad Property Partners K.K. (In Liquidation) 100.00 147
Silkroad Property Partners Limited 100.00 148
Silkroad Property Partners Management N/A 1, 149
Consultancy Limited
Silkroad Property Partners PTE. LTD. 100.00 150
SNC Les Oliviers D'Antibes 60.00 (59.99) 9, 55
SNCB/M6-2007 A 100.00 (99.99) 2, 5, 34
SNCB/M6-2007 B 100.00 (99.99) 2, 5, 34
SNCB/M6-2008 A 100.00 (99.99) 2, 5, 34
Société Française et Suisse 100.00 (99.99) 5, 34
Somers Dublin DAC 100.00 (99.99) 115
Somers Nominees (Far East) Limited 100.00 18
Sopingest 100.00 (99.99) 5, 34
South Yorkshire Light Rail Limited 100.00 12
St Cross Trustees Limited 100.00 14
Sun Hung Kai Development (Lujiazui III) 100.00 11, 151
Limited
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 100.00 19
Corporation Limited
Tooley Street View Limited 100.00 3, 12
Trinkaus Europa Immobilien-Fonds Nr.3 100.00 (99.99) 7, 82
Objekt Utrecht Verwaltungs-GmbH
Trinkaus Immobilien-Fonds 100.00 (99.99) 7, 82
Geschaeftsfuehrungs-GmbH
Trinkaus Immobilien-Fonds Verwaltungs- 100.00 (99.99) 7, 82
GmbH
Trinkaus Private Equity Management GmbH 100.00 (99.99) 7, 82
Trinkaus Private Equity Verwaltungs GmbH 100.00 (99.99) 7, 82
Turnsonic (Nominees) Limited 100.00 14
Valeurs Mobilières Elysées 100.00 (99.99) 5, 34
Financial
statements

[PAGE 438]

Notes on the financial statements
Associates Registered offices
The undertakings below are associates and equity accounted.
5 Donegal Square South, Northern Ireland, Belfast, United Kingdom,
15
BT1 5JP
% of share class
held by 16 1909 Avenida Presidente Juscelino Kubitschek, 19° andar, Torre
immediate parent Norte, São Paulo Corporate Towers, São Paulo, Brazil, 04551-903
company (or by 17 Arnold House St Julians Avenue, St Peter Port, Guernsey, GY1 3NF
the Group where 18 37 Front Street, Harbourview Centre, Ground Floor, Hamilton,
Associates this varies) Footnotes Pembroke, Bermuda, HM 11
Bank of Communications Co., Ltd. 19.03 2, 159 19 1 Queen's Road Central, Hong Kong
Barrowgate Limited 24.64 (15.53) 160 2401-55 24/F, Office Tower Two 1 Jianguomenwai Street, Chaoyang
BGF Group plc 24.62 161 20 District, Beijing, China
Bud Financial Limited 4.50 4, 162
First Floor, Xinhua Bookstore Xindong Road (SE of roundabout),
CANARA HSBC LIFE INSURANCE 26.00 163 21
Miyun District, Beijing, China
COMPANY LIMITED
22 Oak House Hirzel Street, St Peter Port, Guernsey, GY1 2NP
Divido Financial Services Limited (In 7.85 164
Administration) 23 c/o Teneo Financial Advisory Limited, The Colmore Building, 20
Colmore Circus, Queensway, Birmingham, United Kingdom, B4 6AT
Electronic Payment Services Company (Hong 38.69 2, 19
Kong) Limited 24 239 Van Rensselaer Street,, Buffalo, New York, United States of
Episode Six Inc. 5.69 4, 165 America, 14210
EPS Company (Hong Kong) Limited 38.69 19 25 c/o The Corporation Trust Company 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington,
HQLAX S.à r.l. 6.10 4, 90 Delaware, United States of America, 19801
HSBC Jintrust Fund Management Company 49.00 2, 11, 166 26 Corporation Service Company 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Limited Delaware, United States of America, 19808
HSBC UK Covered Bonds (LM) Limited N/A 1,2, 167 27 25/28 North Wall Quay, IFSC, Dublin 1, Leinster
Lightico Ltd 2.80 4, 85
LiquidityMatch LLC N/A 1, 168 28 No 1, Bei Huan East Road Dazu County, Chongqing, China
London Precious Metals Clearing Limited 30.00 2, 169 29 No 107 Ping Du Avenue (E), Sanhe Town, Fengdu County,
Marketnode PTE. Ltd. 12.60 4, 46 Chongqing, China
MENA Infrastructure Fund (GP) Ltd 33.33 170 30 No. 3, 5, 7, Haitang Erzhi Road Changyuan, Rongchang, Chongqing,
Quantexa Limited 9.36 4, 99 China, 402460
Radiant Global Investors LLC N/A 1, 2, 172
31 c/o Walkers Corporate Services Limited, Walker House, 87 Mary
Saudi Awwal Bank 31.00 173 Street, George Town, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands, KY1-9005
The London Gold Market Fixing Limited N/A 1, 157
32 First & Second Floor No.3 Nanshan Road, Pulandian, Dalian, Liaoning,
Threadneedle Software Holdings Limited 7.10 4, 174
China
Trade Information Network Limited 12.76 152
33 160 Mine Lake CT, Ste 200, Raleigh, North Carolina, United States of
Trinkaus Europa Immobilien-Fonds Nr. 7 N/A 182
America, 27615-6417
Frankfurt Mertonviertel KG
We Trade Innovation Designated Activity 9.88 2, 130 34 38 avenue Kléber, Paris, France, 75116
Company (In Liquidation) 35 Avenida de las Granjas 972, Building A, Floor 2, Colonia Santa
Bárbara, Alcaldía Azcapotzalco, Mexico City, Mexico, 02230
Footnotes for Note 38
36 No. 1 1211 Yanjiang Zhong Road, Yongan, Fujian, China
Description of shares 37 83 Des Voeux Road Central, Hong Kong
38 No. 44 Xin Ping Road Central, Encheng, Enping, Guangdong, China,
1 Where an entity is governed by voting rights, HSBC consolidates when 529400
it holds – directly or indirectly – the necessary voting rights to pass
39 Room 311, Cheng Hui No. 2, Nan Sha Street, Nan Sha District,
resolutions by the governing body. In all other cases, the assessment
Guangzhou, Guangdong, China
of control is more complex and requires judgement of other factors,
including having exposure to variability of returns, power to direct 40 34/F, 36/F and 46/F, Hang Seng Bank Tower 1000 Lujiazui Ring Road,
relevant activities, and whether power is held as an agent or principal. Pilot Free Trade Zone, Shanghai, China, 200120
HSBC’s consolidation policy is described in Note 1.2(a).
41 Gustav Mahlerplein 2 1082 MA, Amsterdam, Netherlands
2 Management has determined that these undertakings are excluded
42 1001 T2 Office Building, Qianhai Kerry Business Center, Qianhai
from consolidation in the Group accounts as these entities do not meet
Avenue, Nanshan Street, Qianhai Shenzhen-Hong Kong Cooperation
the definition of subsidiaries in accordance with IFRS. HSBC’s
Zone, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China
consolidation policy is described in Note 1.2(a).
43 Unit 1 GF The Commerical Complex Madrigal Avenue, Ayala Alabang
3 Directly held by HSBC Holdings plc Village, Muntinlupa City, Philippines, 1780
4 Preference Shares 44 C/O Teneo Financial Advisory Limited The Colmore Building, 20
5 Actions Colmore Circus, Queensway, Birmingham, United Kingdom, B4 6AT
6 Redeemable Preference Shares 45 Commerce House, Wickhams Cay 1, P.O. Box 3140, Road Town,
Tortola, British Virgin Islands, VG1110
7 GmbH Anteil
46 1 Harbourfront Avenue, #14-07 Keppel Bay Tower, Singapore, 098632
8 Nominal Shares
9 Parts 47 701 S CARSON ST STE 200, Carson City, Nevada, United States of
America, 89701
10 Non-Participating Voting
48 HSBC House Esplanade, St. Helier, Jersey, JE4 8UB
11 Registered Capital Shares
49 Level 21 Menara IQ, Lingkaran TRX, Tun Razak Exchange, Kuala
Lumpur, Malaysia, 55188
Registered offices
Level 19, Menara IQ, Lingkaran TRX, Tun Razak Exchange, Kuala
50
Lumpur, Malaysia, 55188
12 8 Canada Square, London, United Kingdom, E14 5HQ
51 10 Marina Boulevard #48-01 Marina Bay Financial Centre, Singapore,
13 Paseo de la Reforma 347 Col. Cuauhtemoc, Mexico, 06500 018983
14 1 Centenary Square, Birmingham, United Kingdom, B1 1HQ 52 52/60, M G Road Fort, Mumbai, India, 400 001

[PAGE 439]

Registered offices Registered offices
53 9-11 Floors, NESCO IT Park Building No. 3 Western Express 91 4, rue Peternelchen, Howald, Grand Duchy of Luxembourg,
Highway, Goregaon (East), Mumbai, India, 400063 Luxembourg, L-2370
54 HSBC Building 11-1, Nihonbashi 3-chome, Chuo-ku, Tokyo, Japan, 92 Alphabeta 14-18 Finsbury Square, London, United Kingdom, EC2A
103-0027 1BR
55 Immeuble Cœur Défense 110 esplanade du Général de Gaulle, 93 IConEbene Rue de L’institut, Ebene, Mauritius
Courbevoie, France, 92400 94 Meeting Room 18.R005, 18/F Fortune Financial Center No. 5
56 Level 36, Tower 1, International Towers Sydney, 100 Barangaroo Dongsanhuan Zhong Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing, China, 100020
Avenue, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia, 2000
95 18th Floor Tower 1, HSBC Centre 1 Sham Mong Road, Kowloon,
57 Isidora Goyenechea 2800 23rd floor, Las Condes, Santiago, Chile, Hong Kong
7550647
58 HSBC Building Shanghai ifc, 8 Century Avenue, Pudong, Shanghai, 96 37 Front Street, Harbourview Center, Ground Floor, Hamilton,
China, 200120 Pembroke, Bermuda, HM 11
97 CT Corporation System 28 Liberty Street, New York, New York,
59 IconEbene, Level 5 Office 1 (West Wing), Rue de L’institut, Ebene,
United States of America, 10005
Mauritius
98 Unit 201, Floor 2, Building 3 No. 12, Anxiang Street, Shunyi District,
60 54F, 7 Xinyi Road Sec. 5 Xinyi district, Taipei, Taiwan
Beijing, Beijing, China
61 1266 Dr Luis Bonativa 1266 Piso 30 (Torre IV WTC), Montevideo, 99 C/O Company Secretarial Department, 280 Bishopsgate, London,
Uruguay, CP 11.000 United Kingdom, EC2M 4AG
62 Level 1, 2, 6 The Metropolitan, 235 Dong Khoi, Ben Nghe Ward, 100 300 Delaware Avenue Suite 1401, Wilmington, Delaware, United
District 1, Ho Chi Minh, Vietnam States of America, 19801
63 Esentepe Mah. Büyükdere Caddesi No.128 Şişli, Istanbul, Turkiye, 101 Woodbourne Hall, Road Town, Tortola, British Virgin Islands, P.O. Box
34394 916
64 306 Corniche El Nil Street, Maadi, Cairo, Egypt 102 Craigmuir Chambers, Road Town Tortola, British Virgin Islands,
VG1110
65 116 Archbishop Street, Valletta, Malta, VLT1444
103 52/60 M G Road Fort, Mumbai, India, 400 001
66 Unit 401, Level 4 Gate Precinct Building 2, Dubai International
Financial Centre, P. O. Box 30444, Dubai, United Arab Emirates 104 5/F HSBC Centre 3058 Fifth Ave West, Bonifacio Global City, Taguig
67 Majer Consulting, Office 54/44, Building A1, Residence Ryad Anfa, City, Philippines
Boulevard Omar El Khayam, Casa Finance City (CFC), Casablanca, 105 18 Boulevard de Kockelscheuer, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, 1821
Morocco
68 1800 Tysons Boulevard Suite 50, Tysons, Virginia, United States of 106 Unit 2002 of 20/F, Unit 2101 of 21/F HSBC Building, 8 Century
America, 22102 Avenue, China (Shanghai) Pilot Free Trade Zone, Shanghai, China,
200120
69 P.O. Box 309 Ugland House, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands,
KY1-1104 107 Arnold House St Julians Avenue, St Peter Port, Guernsey, GY1 1WA
70 HSBC House Esplanade, St. Helier, Jersey, JE1 1HS 108 HSBC Tower, Downtown Dubai, P O Box 66, Dubai, United Arab
71 Room 2703, 27F, Tower A, No.8 Century Avenue, China (Shanghai) Emirates
Pilot Free Trade Zone, Shanghai, China, 200120 109 Unit 401, Level 4, Gate Precinct Building 2, Dubai International
72 c/o Rogers Capital St. Louis Business Centre, Cnr Desroches & St Financial Centre, P. O. Box 506553, Dubai, United Arab Emirates
Louis Streets, Port Louis, Mauritius 110 Level 16, HSBC Tower, Downtown Dubai, P.O. Box 66, Dubai, United
73 49 avenue J.F. Kennedy, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, 1855 Arab Emirates
74 4-17/F, Office Tower 2 TaiKoo Hui Development, No. 381 Tian He 111 HSBC Tower, Level 21, 188 Quay Street, Auckland, New Zealand,
Road, Guangzhou, Guangdong, China 1010
75 Suite 1005, 10th Floor, Wisma Hamzah Kwong, Hing No. 1, Leboh 112 The Corporation Trust Incorporated, 2405 York Road, Suite 201,
Ampang, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, 50100 Lutherville Timonium, Maryland, United States of America, 21093
76 Building C-1 UP Ayala Technohub, Commonwealth Avenue,, Diliman, 113 HSBC House Esplanade, St. Helier, Jersey, JE1 1GT
Quezon City, Metro Manila, Philippines 114 9-17 Quai des Bergues, Geneva, Switzerland, 1201
77 HSBC House Plot No.8 Survey No.64 (Part), Hightec City Layout 115 1 Grand Canal Square, Grand Canal Harbour, Dublin 2, Ireland, D02
Madhapur, Hyderabad, India, 500081 P820
78 Mireka City 324/9 Havelock Road, Colombo 05, Sri Lanka, 00500 116 6th floor HSBC Centre 18, Cybercity, Ebene, Mauritius, 72201
79 Smart Village 28th Km Cairo- Alexandria Desert Road Building, Cairo, 117 Esentepe Mah. Büyükdere Caddesi No.128, 34394, Şişli, Istanbul,
Egypt Turkiye
80 Centre Ville 1341 Building - 4th Floor Patriarche Howayek Street, PO 118 5 rue Heienhaff, Senningerberg, Luxembourg, L-1736
Box Riad El Solh, Lebanon, 9597 119 52/60 M G Road, Fort, Mumbai, India, 400 001
81 Room 405 Odd House Number of 859-863, Huanhu West 1st Road, 120 Unit 2201, 22/F, Qianhai Chow Tai Fook Finance Tower (Phase I) No.
Lingang New Area, China (Shanghai) Pilot Free Trade Zone, Shanghai, 66 Shu Niu Avenue, Nanshan Subdistrict, the Shenzhen Qianhai
China, 201306 Shenzhen-Hong Kong Cooperation Zone, the PRC, Shenzhen, China,
518054
82 Hansaallee 3, Düsseldorf, Germany, 40549
121 HSBC Building 7267 Olaya - Al Murrooj, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, 12283 -
83 HSBC Main Building 1 Queen's Road Central, Hong Kong 2255
84 80 Mill Street, Qormi, Malta, QRM 3101
122 306 Corniche El Nil, HSBC Building, Maadi, Cairo, Egypt
85 121 HaHashmonaim St., Tel Aviv, Israel, 6713328
123 1 Mutual Place, 107 Rivonia Road, Sandton, Gauteng, South Africa,
86 36F., No. 68 Sec. 5, Zhongxiao E. Rd., Xinyi Dist., Taipei City, Taiwan, 2196
110419
124 Kapelanka 42A, Krakow, Poland, 30-347
87 452 Fifth Avenue, New York, United States of America, NY10018 125 C T Corporation System 820 Bear Tavern Road, West Trenton, New
88 Mareva House 4 George Street, Nassau, Bahamas Jersey, United States of America, 08628
89 150 King Street West, Suite 200, Toronto, Ontario, Canada, M5H 1J9 126 22/F, Tower 2, Taikoo Hui Building, No. 381 Tianhe Road, Tianhe
District, Guangzhou, China
90 9 rue du Laboratoire, Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, Luxembourg,
L-1911 127 Business Bay, Wing 2 Tower B, Survey no 103, Hissa no. 2, Airport
road, Yerwada, Pune, India, 411006
Financial
statements

[PAGE 440]

Notes on the financial statements
Registered offices Registered offices
128 Room 3102, L31 HSBC Building, Shanghai ifc, 8 Century Avenue, 169 7th Floor, 62 Threadneedle Street, London, United Kingdom, EC2R
China (Shanghai) Free Trade Zone, Shanghai, China, 200120 8HP
129 16 Boulevard d'Avranches, Luxembourg, L-1160 170 Unit 306,307, 308, Gate Village Building 05, Dubai International
130 10 Earlsfort Terrace, Dublin, Ireland, D02 T380 Financial Centre, Dubai, United Arab Emirates
131 No. 56 Yu Rong Street, Macheng, China, 438300 171 Gartenstrasse 26, Zurich, Switzerland, 8002
132 No. 205 Lie Shan Road Suizhou, Hubei, China 172 4482 Deer Ridge Road, Danville, CA, Delaware, United States of
America, 94506
133 Building 3, Yin Zuo Di Jing Wan Tianmen New City, Tianmen, Hubei
Province, China 173 7383 King Fahad Branch Rd, 2338 - Al Yasmeen Dist., Riyadh, Saudi
Arabia, 13325
134 RM101, 102 & 106 Sunshine Fairview, Sunshine Garden, Pedestrian
Walkway, Pingjiang, China 174 2nd Floor, Regis House, 45 King William Street, London, United
Kingdom, EC4R 9AN
135 Craigmuir Chambers, Road Town, Tortola, British Virgin Islands,
VG1110 175 Coeur Défense - 110, esplanade du Général de Gaulle - La Défense 4
– 92400 Courbevoie
136 Kings Meadow Chester Business Park, Chester, United Kingdom,
CH99 9FB 176 3 Dublin Landings, North Wall Quay, Dublin 1, Ireland
137 Level 15 HSBC Tower, Downtown Dubai, Dubai, United Arab 177 3, rue Jean Piret,L-2350 Luxembourg,Grand Duchy of Luxembourg
Emirates, PO Box 66
138 De Entrée 201, Amsterdam, Netherlands, 1101 HG
139 World Trade Center 3, 9th Floor, Jalan Jendral Sudirman Kaveling
29-31, Karet, Setiabudi, South Jakarta, DKI Jakarta, Indonesia, 12920
140 5th Floor, World Trade Center 1, Jl. Jend. Sudirman Kav. 29-31,
Jakarta, Indonesia, 12920
141 No.198-2 Chengshan Avenue (E), Rongcheng, China, 264300
142 Room 601, 6/F Phase 1 Qianhai Chow Tai Fook Finance Tower, 66
Shuniu Avenue, Nanshan Community, Qianhai Shenzhen-Hong Kong
Corporation Zone, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China
143 Woodbourne Hall, Road Town, Tortola, British Virgin Islands, P.O. Box
3162
144 1 Côte d'Eich, Luxembourg, 1450
145 P.O. Box 3119 Grand Pavilion, Hibiscus Way, 802 West Bay Road,
Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands, KY1 – 1205
146 17 Boulevard F.W Raiffeisen, Luxembourg, 2411
147 Tokyo Club Building 11F, 3-2-6 Kasumigaseki, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo,
Japan
148 27/F, Alexandra House, 18 Chater Road Central, Hong Kong
149 Unit 2017, Floor 20, Tower 1 No.288, Shimen 1st Road, Jing An
District, Shanghai, China, 200041
150 10 Collyer Quay, #10-01 Ocean Financial Centre, Singapore,
Singapore, 049315
151 RM 2112, HSBC Building, Shanghai ifc No. 8 Century Road, Pudong,
Shanghai, China, 200120
152 3 More London Riverside, London, United Kingdom, SE1 2AQ
153 296, floor 18, office A Paseo de la Reforma, Mexico City, Mexico,
06600
154 35 Ballards Lane, London, United Kingdom, N3 1XW
155 1 Raffles Quay #23-01, Singapore, 048583
156 c/o Mayfair Corporate Services Ltd., 26 Burnaby Street, Hamilton,
Bermuda, HM11
157 27 Old Gloucester Street, London, United Kingdom, WC1N 3AX
158 All Saints Triangle Caledonian road, London, United Kingdom, N19UT
159 188 Yin Cheng Zhong Lu (Shanghai) Pilot Free Trade Zone, China
160 50/F, Lee Garden One, 33 Hysan Avenue, Hong Kong
161 13-15 York Buildings, London, United Kingdom, WC2N 6JU
162 167-169 Great Portland Street, 5th Floor, London, United Kingdom,
W1W 5PF
163 8th Floor Unit No. 808-814, Ambadeep Building, Plot No. 14, Kasturba
Gandhi Marg, New Delhi, India, 110001
164 C/O Interpath Ltd, 10 Fleet Place, London, United Kingdom, EC4M
7RB
165 251 Little Falls Drive, New Castle, Wilmington, United States of
America, 19808
166 17F, HSBC Building, Shanghai ifc 8 Century Avenue, Pudong,
Shanghai, China
167 10th Floor 5 Churchill Place, London, United Kingdom, E14 5HU
168 111 Town Square Place, Suite 840, Jersey City, New Jersey, United
States of America, 07310

[PAGE 441]

Shareholder information
Contents
439 Fourth interim dividend for 2024
439 Interim dividends for 2025
439 Other equity instruments
440 2024 Annual General Meeting
440 Earnings releases and interim results
440 Shareholder enquiries and communications
440 Stock symbols
441 Investor relations
441 Where more information about HSBC is available
441 Taxation of shares and dividends
443 Approach to ESG reporting
451 Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements
453 Certain defined terms
454 Abbreviations
This section gives important information for our shareholders, including contact information. It also includes an overview of key abbreviations
Fourth interim dividend for 2024
The Directors have approved a fourth interim dividend for 2024 of $0.36 per ordinary share. Information on the currencies in which shareholders
may elect to have the cash dividend paid can be viewed at www.hsbc.com/investors. The interim dividend will be paid in cash. The timetable for
the interim dividend is:
Announcement 19 February 2025
Shares quoted ex-dividend in London, Hong Kong and Bermuda 6 March 2025
American Depositary Shares (‘ADS’) quoted ex-dividend in New York 7 March 2025
Record date – London, Hong Kong, New York, Bermuda1 7 March 2025
Final date for dividend election changes including Investor Centre electronic instructions and revocations of standing instructions for dividend elections 10 April 2025
Exchange rate determined for payment of dividends in pounds sterling and Hong Kong dollars 14 April 2025
Payment date 25 April 2025
1 Removals to and from the Overseas Branch register of shareholders in Hong Kong or Bermuda will not be permitted on this date.
Interim dividends for 2025
As previously communicated, we established and achieved a target dividend payout ratio of 50% of earnings per ordinary share (‘EPS’) for 2023
and 2024, excluding the special dividend. EPS for this purpose excludes material notable items and related impacts. Material notable items in
2023 and 2024 included the sale of our businesses in Canada and Argentina, the sale of our retail banking operations in France, the gain
following the acquisition of SVB UK and the impairment of our investment in BoCom. We also exclude HSBC Bank Canada‘s financial results
from the 30 June 2022 net asset reference date until completion on 29 March 2024, as the gain on sale recognised through a combination of
the consolidation of HSBC Bank Canada‘s results in the Group‘s results since this date, and the remaining gain on sale was recognised at
completion, inclusive of the recycling of related reserves and fair value gains on related hedges.
The Board has adopted a dividend policy designed to provide sustainable cash dividends, while retaining the flexibility to invest and grow the
business in the future, supplemented by additional shareholder distributions, if appropriate. The Board has established a target dividend payout
ratio of 50% for 2025, subject to meeting capital requirements.
Dividends are approved in US dollars and, at the election of the shareholder, paid in cash in one of, or in a combination of, US dollars, pounds
sterling and Hong Kong dollars.
Other equity instruments
Additional tier 1 capital – contingent convertible securities
HSBC continues to issue contingent convertible securities that are included in its capital base as fully CRR II-compliant additional tier 1 capital
securities. For further details on these securities, see Note 32 on the financial statements.
HSBC Holdings issued SGD1,500m 5.250% perpetual subordinated contingent convertible securities on 14 June 2024. In addition, HSBC
Holdings issued US$1,350m 6.875% and US$1,150m 6.950% perpetual subordinated contingent convertible securities on 11 September 2024.
Additional
information

[PAGE 442]

Additional information
2024 Annual General Meeting
With the exception of the shareholder requisitioned Resolution 17, which the Board recommended that shareholders vote against, all
resolutions considered at the 2024 AGM held at 11:00am on 3 May 2024 at InterContinental London O2, 1 Waterview Drive, London SE10 0TW,
UK, were passed on a poll.
Earnings releases and interim results
First and third quarter results for 2025 will be released on 29 April 2025 and 28 October 2025, respectively. The interim results for the six
months to 30 June 2025 will be issued on 30 July 2025.
Shareholder enquiries and communications
Enquiries
Any enquiries relating to shareholdings on the share register (for example, transfers of shares, changes of name or address, lost share
certificates or dividend cheques) should be sent to the Registrars at the address given below. The Registrars offer an online facility, Investor
Centre, which enables shareholders to manage their shareholding electronically.
Principal Register: Computershare Investor Services PLC Telephone: +44 (0) 370 702 0137
The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 6ZZ, www.investorcentre.co.uk/contactus
United Kingdom Investor Centre: www.investorcentre.co.uk
Hong Kong Overseas Branch Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services Limited Telephone: +852 2862 8555
Register: Rooms 1712–1716, 17th Floor Hopewell Centre, 183 hsbc.ecom@computershare.com.hk
Queen’s Road East, Hong Kong Investor Centre: www.investorcentre.com/hk
Bermuda Overseas Branch Register: Investor Relations Team hbbm.shareholder.services@hsbc.bm
HSBC Bank Bermuda Limited, 37 Front Street, Investor Centre: www.investorcentre.com/bm
Hamilton, HM 11, Bermuda
ADS Depositary: The Bank of New York Mellon Telephone (US): +1 877 283 5786
Shareowner Services, P.O. Box 43006, Providence RI Telephone (International): +1 201 680 6825
02940-3078, USA shrrelations@cpushareownerservices.com
If your shareholding is not recorded directly on the share register, it is important to remember that your main contact for all matters relating to
your investment remains the registered shareholder, or custodian or broker, who administers the investment on your behalf. This is the case
even if you have elected to receive information rights directly from HSBC Holdings. Any changes or queries relating to your personal details and
holding (including any administration of it) should be directed to your existing contact at your investment manager or custodian or broker. HSBC
Holdings cannot guarantee dealing with matters directed to it in error.
www.hsbc.com/investors/investor-contacts for further information. You can also download an online version of the report from www.hsbc.com.
Electronic communications
Shareholders may at any time choose to receive corporate communications in printed form or to receive notifications of their availability on
HSBC’s website. To receive notifications of the availability of a corporate communication on HSBC’s website by email, or revoke or amend an
instruction to receive such notifications by email, go to www.hsbc.com/investors/shareholder-information/manage-your-shareholding. If you
received a notification of the availability of this document on HSBC’s website and would like to receive a printed copy, or if you would like to
receive future corporate communications in printed form, please write or send an email (quoting your shareholder reference number) to the
appropriate Registrars at the address given above. Printed copies will be provided without charge.
Chinese translation
details above). Please also contact the Registrars if you wish to receive Chinese translations of future documents, or if you have received a
Chinese translation of this document and do not wish to receive them in future.
《2024 年報及賬目》備有中譯本，各界人士可於2025年3月21日之後，向上列股份登記處索閱。
閣下如欲於日後收取相關文件的中譯本，或已收到本文件的中譯本但不希望繼續收取有關譯本，均請聯絡股份登記處。
Stock symbols
HSBC Holdings ordinary shares trade under the following stock symbols:
London Stock Exchange HSBA* New York Stock Exchange (ADS) HSBC
Hong Kong Stock Exchange 5 Bermuda Stock Exchange HSBC.BH
∗ HSBC’s Primary market

[PAGE 443]

Investor relations
Enquiries relating to HSBC’s strategy or operations may be directed to:
Neil Sankoff, Global Head of Investor Relations Yafei Tian, Head of Investor Relations, Asia-Pacific
HSBC Holdings plc The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking
8 Canada Square Corporation Limited
London E14 5HQ 1 Queen’s Road Central
United Kingdom Hong Kong
Telephone: +44 (0) 20 7991 5072 Telephone: +852 2899 8909
Email: investorrelations@hsbc.com Email: investorrelations@hsbc.com.hk
Where more information about HSBC is available
Reports, statements and information that HSBC Holdings files with the Securities and Exchange Commission are available at www.sec.gov.
Investors can also request hard copies of these documents upon payment of a duplicating fee by writing to the SEC at the Office of Investor
Education and Advocacy, 100 F Street N.E., Washington, DC 20549-0213 or by emailing PublicInfo@sec.gov. Investors should call the
Commission at (1) 202 551 8090 if they require further assistance. Investors may also obtain the reports and other information that HSBC
Holdings files at www.nyse.com (telephone number (1) 212 656 3000).
HM Treasury has transposed the requirements set out under CRD IV and issued the Capital Requirements Country-by-Country Reporting
Regulations 2013. The legislation requires HSBC Holdings to publish additional information in respect of the year ended 31 December 2024 by
31 December 2025. This information will be available on HSBC’s website: www.hsbc.com/tax.
Taxation of shares and dividends
Taxation – UK residents Taxation of capital gains
The following is a summary, under current law (unless otherwise The computation of the capital gains tax liability arising on disposals
noted) and the current published practice of HM Revenue and of shares in HSBC Holdings by shareholders subject to UK tax on
Customs (‘HMRC’), of certain UK tax considerations that are likely to capital gains can be complex, partly depending on whether, for
be material to the ownership and disposition of HSBC Holdings example, the shares were purchased since April 1991, acquired in
ordinary shares. The summary does not purport to be a 1991 in exchange for shares in The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking
comprehensive description of all the tax considerations that may be Corporation Limited, or acquired subsequent to 1991 in exchange for
relevant to a holder of shares. In particular, the summary deals with shares in other companies.
shareholders who are resident solely in the UK for UK tax purposes
For capital gains tax purposes, the acquisition cost for ordinary shares
and only with holders who hold the shares as investments and who
is adjusted to take account of subsequent rights and capitalisation
are the beneficial owners of the shares, and does not address the tax
issues. Any capital gain arising on a disposal of shares in HSBC
treatment of certain classes of holders such as dealers in securities.
Holdings by a UK company may also be adjusted to take account of
Holders and prospective purchasers should consult their own
indexation allowance if the shares were acquired before 1 January
advisers regarding the tax consequences of an investment in shares
2018, although the level of indexation allowance that is given in
in light of their particular circumstances, including the effect of any
calculating the gain would be frozen at the value that would have
national, state or local laws.
been applied to a disposal of those shares in December 2017. If in
Taxation of dividends doubt, shareholders are recommended to consult their professional
advisers.
Currently, no tax is withheld from dividends paid by HSBC Holdings.
Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax
UK resident individuals
Transfers of shares by a written instrument of transfer generally will
UK resident individuals are generally entitled to a tax-free annual
be subject to UK stamp duty at the rate of 0.5% of the consideration
allowance in respect of dividends received. The amount of the
paid for the transfer (rounded up to the next £5), and such stamp duty
allowance for the tax year beginning 6 April 2024 is £500. To the
is generally payable by the transferee. An agreement to transfer
extent that dividend income received by an individual in the relevant
shares, or any interest therein, normally will give rise to a charge to
tax year does not exceed the allowance, a nil tax rate will apply.
stamp duty reserve tax at the rate of 0.5% of the consideration.
Dividend income in excess of this allowance will be taxed at 8.75%
However, provided an instrument of transfer of the shares is
for basic rate taxpayers, 33.75% for higher rate taxpayers and
executed pursuant to the agreement and duly stamped before the
39.35% for additional rate taxpayers.
date on which the stamp duty reserve tax becomes payable, under
UK resident companies the current published practice of HMRC it will not be necessary to
pay the stamp duty reserve tax, nor to apply for such tax to be
Shareholders that are within the charge to UK corporation tax should cancelled. Stamp duty reserve tax is generally payable by the
generally be entitled to an exemption from UK corporation tax on any transferee.
dividends received from HSBC Holdings. However, the exemptions
are not comprehensive and are subject to anti-avoidance rules. Paperless transfers of shares within CREST, the UK’s paperless share
transfer system, are liable to stamp duty reserve tax at the rate of
If the conditions for exemption are not met or cease to be satisfied, 0.5% of the consideration. In CREST transactions, the tax is
or a shareholder within the charge to UK corporation tax elects for an calculated and payment made automatically. Deposits of shares into
otherwise exempt dividend to be taxable, the shareholder will be CREST generally will not be subject to stamp duty reserve tax, unless
subject to UK corporation tax on dividends received from HSBC the transfer into CREST is itself for consideration.
Holdings at the rate of corporation tax applicable to that shareholder.
Additional
information

[PAGE 444]

Additional information
Taxation – US residents vocation, branch or agency or permanent establishment. Such gains
will be included in income for US tax purposes, and will be long-term
The following is a summary, under current law, of the principal UK tax capital gains if the shares or ADSs were held for more than one year.
and US federal income tax considerations that are likely to be material A long-term capital gain realised by an individual US holder generally
to the ownership and disposition of shares or American Depositary will be subject to US tax at preferential rates.
Shares (‘ADSs’) by a holder that is a US holder, as defined below, and
who is not resident in the UK for UK tax purposes. Inheritance tax
The summary does not purport to be a comprehensive description of Shares or ADSs held by an individual whose domicile is determined
all of the tax considerations that may be relevant to a holder of shares to be the US for the purposes of the United States–United Kingdom
or ADSs. In particular, the summary deals only with US holders that Double Taxation Convention relating to estate and gift taxes (the
hold shares or ADSs as capital assets, and does not address the tax ‘Estate Tax Treaty’) and who is not for such purposes a national of
treatment of holders that are subject to special tax rules. These the UK will not, provided any US federal estate or gift tax chargeable
include banks, tax-exempt entities, insurance companies, dealers in has been paid, be subject to UK inheritance tax on the individual’s
securities or currencies, persons that hold shares or ADSs as part of death or on a lifetime transfer of shares or ADSs except in certain
an integrated investment (including a ‘straddle’ or ‘hedge’) comprised cases where the shares or ADSs (i) are comprised in a settlement
of a share or ADS and one or more other positions, and persons that (unless, at the time of the settlement, the settlor was domiciled in
own directly or indirectly 10% or more (by vote or value) of the stock the US and was not a national of the UK), (ii) are part of the business
of HSBC Holdings. This discussion is based on laws, treaties, judicial property of a UK permanent establishment of an enterprise, or (iii)
decisions and regulatory interpretations in effect on the date hereof, pertain to a UK fixed base of an individual used for the performance
all of which are subject to change. of independent personal services. In such cases, the Estate Tax
Treaty generally provides a credit against US federal tax liability for
For the purposes of this discussion, a ‘US holder’ is a beneficial the amount of any tax paid in the UK in a case where the shares or
holder that is a citizen or resident of the United States, a US domestic ADSs are subject to both UK inheritance tax and to US federal estate
corporation or otherwise is subject to US federal income taxes on a or gift tax.
net income basis in respect thereof.
Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax –
Holders and prospective purchasers should consult their own
ADSs
advisers regarding the tax consequences of an investment in shares
or ADSs in light of their particular circumstances, including the effect If shares are transferred to a clearance service or American
of any national, state or local laws. Depositary Receipt (‘ADR’) issuer (which will include a transfer of
shares to the depositary) UK stamp duty and/or stamp duty reserve
tax will be payable unless the transfer is, or is treated as being, in the
Accounts 2024 is for informational purposes only. It was not intended
course of a capital raising arrangement. The stamp duty or stamp
or written to be used, and cannot be used, for the purpose of
duty reserve tax is generally payable on the consideration for the
avoiding US federal tax penalties.
transfer (or, if there is no consideration in money or money’s worth,
Taxation of dividends the value of the shares being transferred) and is payable at the
aggregate rate of 1.5%.
Currently, no tax is withheld from dividends paid by HSBC Holdings.
For US tax purposes, a US holder must include cash dividends paid The amount of stamp duty reserve tax payable on such a transfer will
on the shares or ADSs in ordinary income on the date that such be reduced by any stamp duty paid in connection with the same
holder or the ADS depositary receives them, translating dividends transfer.
paid in UK pounds sterling into US dollars using the exchange rate in
No stamp duty will be payable on the transfer of, or agreement to
effect on the date of receipt. A US holder that elects to receive
transfer, an ADS, provided that the ADR and any separate instrument
shares in lieu of a cash dividend must include in ordinary income the
of transfer or written agreement to transfer remain at all times
fair market value of such shares on the dividend payment date, and
outside the UK, and provided further that any such transfer or written
the tax basis of those shares will equal such fair market value.
agreement to transfer is not executed in the UK. No stamp duty
Subject to certain exceptions for positions that are held for less than reserve tax will be payable on a transfer of, or agreement to transfer,
61 days, and subject to a foreign corporation being considered a an ADS effected by the transfer of an ADR.
‘qualified foreign corporation’ (which includes not being classified for
US information reporting and backup
US federal income tax purposes as a passive foreign investment
company), certain dividends (‘qualified dividends’) received by an withholding tax
individual US holder generally will be subject to US taxation at
Distributions made on shares or ADSs and proceeds from the sale of
preferential rates.
shares or ADSs that are paid within the US, or through certain
Based on the company’s audited financial statements and relevant financial intermediaries to US holders, are subject to US information
market and shareholder data, HSBC Holdings does not believe that it reporting and may be subject to a US ‘backup’ withholding tax.
was a passive investment company for its 2024 taxable year and General exceptions to this rule happen when the US holder:
does not anticipate becoming a passive foreign investment company establishes that it is a corporation (other than an S corporation) or
in 2025 or the foreseeable future. Accordingly, dividends paid on the other exempt holder; or provides a correct taxpayer identification
shares or ADSs generally should be eligible for qualified dividends number, certifies that no loss of exemption from backup withholding
treatment. has occurred and otherwise complies with the applicable
requirements of the backup withholding rules. Holders that are not
Taxation of capital gains US persons (as defined in the US Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
Gains realised by a US holder on the sale or other disposition of amended) generally are not subject to US information reporting or
shares or ADSs normally will not be subject to UK taxation unless at backup withholding tax, but may be required to comply with
the time of the sale or other disposition the holder carries on a trade, applicable certification procedures to establish that they are not US
profession or vocation in the UK through a branch or agency or persons in order to avoid the application of such US information
permanent establishment and the shares or ADSs are or have been reporting requirements or backup withholding tax to payments
used, held or acquired for the purposes of such trade, profession, received within the US or through certain financial intermediaries.

[PAGE 445]

Approach to ESG reporting Our reporting around ESG
The information set out in the ESG review on pages 41 to 84, taken
Accounts 2024, including the ’ESG overview’ section of the Strategic
together with other information relating to ESG issues included in this
Report (pages 15 to 19), ESG review (pages 41 to 84), and the
‘Climate risk’ and ‘Insights from climate scenario analysis’ sections of
information and data relevant to our operations for the year ended
the Risk review (pages 219 to 228). In addition, we have other
31 December 2024. The data is compiled for the financial year
supplementary materials, including our ESG Data Pack, which
1 January to 31 December 2024 unless otherwise specified.
provides a more granular breakdown of ESG information.
Measurement techniques and calculations are explained next to data
tables where necessary. There are no significant changes from the
Detailed data Additional reports
previous reporting period in terms of scope, boundary or
measurement of our reporting of ESG matters. Where relevant, ESG Data Pack 2024, UK Pay Gap Report 2024
including SASB Index Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement
rationale is provided for any restatement of information or data that
2024 and WEF Index 2024
has been previously published.
2024 Green Bond Report 2024
HSBC UN Sustainable Development Goals Bond
How we decide what to measure
Report 2024
We listen to our stakeholders in a number of different ways, which For further details of our supplementary materials, see our ESG reporting
we set out in more detail within the ‘ESG overview’ on page 16. We centre at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-business/esg-
use the information they provide us to identify the issues that are reporting-centre.
most important to them and consequently also matter to our own
ESG Guide
business. Our ESG Committee and other relevant governance bodies
regularly discuss the new and existing themes and issues that matter
We comply with the ‘comply or explain’ provisions in the ESG Guide,
to our stakeholders. Our management team then uses this insight,
save for certain items, which we describe in more detail below:
alongside the framework of the ESG Guide (which refers to our
obligations under the Environmental, Social and Governance – A1(b) on relevant laws/regulations relating to air and greenhouse
Reporting Guide contained in Appendix C2 to The Rules Governing gas emissions, discharges into water and land, and generation of
the Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong hazardous and non-hazardous waste, and on emissions: taking into
Limited), and the UKLR 6.6.6R(8) of the Financial Conduct Authority’s account the nature of our business, we do not believe that there
(‘FCA’) Listing Rules, Sections 414CA and 414CB of the UK are relevant laws and regulations in these areas that have
Companies Act 2006, and other applicable laws and regulations to significant impacts on our operations. Nevertheless, we are fully
choose what we measure and publicly report in our ESG review. We compliant with our publication of information regarding scope 1
will continue to develop and refine our reporting and disclosures on and 2 carbon emissions, while we only partially publish
ESG matters in line with feedback received from our investors and information on scope 3 carbon emissions, as the data required for
other stakeholders, and in view of our obligations under the ESG that publication is not yet fully available.
Guide and the FCA’s Listing Rules.
– A1.3 on total hazardous waste produced, A1.4 on total non-
Under the ESG Guide, ’materiality’ is considered to be the threshold hazardous waste produced: Taking into account the nature of our
at which ESG issues become sufficiently important to our investors business, we do not consider hazardous waste to be a material
and other stakeholders that they should be publicly reported. Our issue for our stakeholders. As such, we report only on total waste
approach to materiality also considers disclosure standards and other produced, which includes hazardous and non-hazardous waste.
applicable rules and regulations as part of our materiality assessment – A1.6 on handling hazardous and non-hazardous waste: Taking into
for specific ESG topics and relevant disclosures. account the nature of our business, we do not consider this to be
a material issue for our stakeholders. Notwithstanding this, we
Given ongoing developments in the ESG regulatory environment
continue to focus on the reduction and recycling of all waste.
across various jurisdictions in which we operate, combined with the
Building on the success of our previous operational environmental
relative immaturity of processes, systems, data quality and controls,
strategy, we are continuing to seek to identify key opportunities
our focus remains on supporting a globally consistent set of
where we can lessen our wider environmental impact, including
mandatory sustainability standards. We aim to continue to evolve our
waste management. For further details, please see our ESG
reporting to recognise market developments, such as the
review on page 58.
International Sustainability Standards Board (‘ISSB’) or the Corporate
Sustainability Reporting Directive (‘CSRD’), and support the efforts to – A2.4 on sourcing water issue and water efficiency target: Taking
we continue to report against the core World Economic Forum be a material issue for our stakeholders. Notwithstanding this, we
(‘WEF’), Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics and Sustainability Accounting have implemented measures to further reduce water consumption
Standards Board (‘SASB’) metrics, and will continue to review our through the installation of flow restrictors, auto-taps and low or
approach as the regulatory landscape evolves. zero flush sanitary fittings and continue to track our water
consumption.
Consistent with the scope of financial information presented in our
of HSBC Holdings plc and its subsidiaries. Given the relative safety and labelling relating to products and services provided,
immaturity of ESG-related data and methodologies in general, we are B6.1 on percentage of total products sold or shipped subject to
on a journey towards improving completeness and robustness. recalls for safety and health reasons and B6.4 in recall procedures:
Taking into account the nature of our business, we do not
For further details of our material ESG topics, see ‘Engaging with our consider these to be material issues for our stakeholders.
stakeholders and our material ESG topics’ on page 16.
This is aligned with the materiality reporting principle that is set out in
the ESG Guide. See ‘How we decide what to measure’ for further
information on how we determine what matters are material to our
stakeholders.
Additional
information

[PAGE 446]

Additional information
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’)
TCFD
As noted on page 18, we have considered our ‘comply or explain’ obligation under both UKLR 6.6.6(8) of the Financial Conduct Authority’s
(‘FCA’) Listing Rules and Sections 414CA and 414CB of the UK Companies Act 2006. We perform an assessment to ascertain the appropriate
considering what to measure and publicly report. Our assessment takes into account factors such as the level of our exposure to climate-
related risks and opportunities, the scope and objectives of our climate-related strategy, transitional challenges, and the nature, size and
complexity of our business. See ‘How we decide what to measure’ for further information.
We confirm that we have made disclosures consistent with 11 TCFD Recommendations and Recommended Disclosures, including its annexes
and supplemental guidance, which we summarise in the table below:
Disclosure
Recommendation Response location
Governance
a) Describe the Board’s oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities (Companies Act 2006 - Sections 414CA and 414CB 2A (a))
Process, frequency and – The Board takes overall responsibility for ESG strategy, overseeing executive management in developing the Pages 74
training approach, execution and associated reporting. ESG strategies were considered at eight Board meetings during the and 253
year.
– Board members receive ESG-related training as part of their induction and ongoing development, and seek out further Page 74
opportunities to build their skills and experience in this area.
Sub-committee – The Group Audit Committee (‘GAC’) considered ESG and climate reporting matters at six meetings during 2024. Page 264
accountability, Furthermore, as an area of expanded assurance, the GAC, supported by the executive-level ESG Committee, provided
processes and close oversight of the disclosure risks in relation to sustainability and climate reporting, amid rising stakeholder
frequency expectations. The work will continue throughout 2025 in partnership with the Sustainability Working Group.
– The Group Risk Committee (‘GRC’) remained focused on climate risk and greenwashing risk. The GRC received reports Pages 272
on climate risk management and sustainability risk policies, while maintaining oversight of delivery plans and risk appetite and 275
breaches to help ensure that the Group continues to develop and maintains robust climate risk management capabilities.
Reputation risk considerations have also formed part of these discussions. It considered climate risk at four meetings in
2024.
– The diagram on page 74 provides an illustration of our ESG governance process, including how the Board’s strategy Page 74
on climate is cascaded and implemented throughout the organisation. It identifies examples of forums that manage
both climate-related opportunities and risks, along with their responsibilities and the responsible chair.
Examples of the Board – The Board has overall responsibility for ESG strategy, overseeing executive management in developing the approach, Page 251
and relevant Board execution, and associated reporting.
committees taking
– We enhanced our ESG governance with the establishment of a new Sustainability Working Group (‘SWG’) of the HSBC Pages 22
climate into account
Holdings Board. This working group has an initial remit to provide oversight and guidance in relation to the Group’s and 74
sustainability activities, including the targets and timelines set out in the net zero transition plan, key sustainability risk
policies and communication with key stakeholder groups.
– In 2024, the Board oversaw the implementation of ESG strategy through regular dashboard reports and detailed Page 251
updates including: review and approval of the net zero transition plan; deep dives on the sustainability execution
programme; and updates on human rights.
b) Describe management’s role in assessing and managing climate-related risks and opportunities (Companies Act 2006 - Sections 414CA and 414CB 2A (a))
Who manages climate- – The Sustainability Working Group, established in 4Q24, oversees and provides guidance on the Group-wide medium Page 220
related risks and and longer-term sustainability strategy. The ESG Committee has oversight of ESG strategy, policy, material
opportunities commitments and external disclosure. It is co-chaired by the Group CEO and the Group Chief Sustainability Officer.
– The Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer is the senior manager responsible for the management of climate risk Page 220
under the UK Senior Managers Regime, holding overall accountability for the Group’s climate risk programme.
How management – The Board delegates day-to-day management of the business and implementation of strategy to the Group CEO. During the Page 247
reports to the Board year, the incumbent Group CEO was supported in his management of the Group by recommendations and advice from the
Group Executive Committee (’GEC’), an executive forum comprising members of senior management that include chief
executive officers of the global businesses and regions, as well as functional heads.
– During the year, the Board also oversaw the rationalisation of the ESG Committee and Sustainability Execution Page 251
Committee into a single governance body (named the ESG Committee). These Board and executive level governance
forums support senior management in the operationalisation of the Group’s sustainability strategy, through the oversight
of the sustainability execution programme. For further details see page 74.
Processes used to – The Group Risk Management Meeting oversees the enterprise-wide management of all risks, including updates Page 74
inform management relating to the Group’s climate risk profile and risk appetite, top and emerging climate risks, and key climate initiatives.
Strategy
a) Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the organisation has identified over the short, medium and long term (Companies Act 2006 -
Sections 414CA and 414CB 2A (d))
Processes used to – When assessing our long-term scenarios, climate-related losses are expected to remain minimal in the short term and Page 224
determine material likely to increase in the medium and longer time horizon, driven by the transition to a net zero economy and greater
risks and opportunities physical risk impacts.
– Our models continue to incorporate a range of climate-specific metrics that could potentially impact our customers, Page 224
including expected production volumes, revenue, costs and capital expenditure.
Relevant short-, – Our annual climate risk materiality assessment helps us to understand how climate risk may impact HSBC’s risk Page 219
medium-, and long-term taxonomy. The assessment considers short-term (up to 2026), medium-term (2027-2035) and long-term (2036-2050)
time horizons periods.

[PAGE 447]

Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’) continued
Disclosure
Recommendation Response location
Transition or physical – We aim to help our customers transition to net zero and a sustainable future by providing and facilitating between Page 45
climate-related issues $750bn and $1tn of sustainable finance and investment by 2030. Our Sustainable Finance and Investment Data
identified Dictionary 2024 includes a detailed definition of contributing activities.
– For transition risk, we have metrics in place to monitor the exposure of our wholesale corporate lending portfolio to six Page 221
high transition risk sectors. As at 31 December 2024, the overall exposure to six high transition risk sectors was 18% of
total gross carrying amount of wholesale loans and advances. Our relationship managers engage with our key wholesale
customers, including those in higher transition risk sectors, through a transition engagement questionnaire (‘TEQ’). In
2024, the TEQ was expanded to cover all geographies. The TEQ helps to gather information and assess our wholesale
customers’ business model alignment to a net zero transition and their exposure to physical and transition risks.
– The impact on our wholesale portfolios is demonstrated by the table on page 225 which shows the size of exposures by Page 225
sector in 2024 and the cumulative change in ECL compared with a counterfactual scenario (expressed as a multiple).
The size of our exposure in each sector is represented by our exposure at default (‘EAD’) relative to one another.
– The table on page 227 demonstrates the impact on our commercial real estate (‘CRE’) portfolio for specific markets, Page 227
including the three biggest markets – Hong Kong, the UK and the US. This shows the increase in cumulative ECL over
different time horizons, under each scenario, compared with a counterfactual scenario (expressed as a multiple).
– We measure the impacts of climate and weather events on our buildings on an ongoing basis using historical, current Page 228
and scenario-modelled forecast data. In 2024, there were 40 major storms that had a minor impact on three of our
buildings.
Risks and – For transition risk, we have metrics in place to monitor the exposure of our wholesale corporate lending portfolio to six Page 221
opportunities by high transition risk sectors. These are automotive, chemicals, construction, contracting & building materials, metals and
sector and/or mining, oil and gas, and power and utilities.
geography – Within our mortgage portfolios, properties or areas with potentially heightened physical risk are identified and assessed Page 221
locally with exposure monitored using risk indicators. A reduction in property value, higher insurance costs and insurance
availability are potential future negative financial impacts for properties with higher physical risk. Geographically, for the
UK lending balances, our highest flood risk exposures are the Greater London and South-East regions.
– Development of clean power generation is critical to achieving net zero. We supported Abu Dhabi Future Energy Page 46
Company (Masdar) towards its equity commitments on new greenfield projects in renewable energy and energy
efficiency, by acting as joint lead manager and bookrunner in raising $1bn through its second green bond issuance.
– We aim to help our customers transition to net zero and a sustainable future by providing and facilitating between Page 45
$750bn and $1tn of sustainable finance and investment by 2030. Additional detailed information on our sustainable
finance and investment progress can be found in the ESG Data Pack.
Concentrations of – We report our exposure to the six high transition risk sectors in the wholesale portfolio, which are automotive, Page 221
credit exposure to chemicals, construction, contracting & building materials, metals and mining, oil and gas, and power and utilities. For
carbon-related assets details, see the ESG Data Pack.
(supplemental
– We monitor the energy performance certificate (‘EPC’) ratings of individual properties from A (highest efficiency) through Page 221
guidance for banks)
to G (least efficient) as EPCs are commonly used as an indicator of transition risk in the UK mortgage book.
Climate-related risks – Our material exposure to climate risk relates to wholesale and retail client financing activity within our banking portfolio. Page 60
(transition and
– We are also exposed to climate risk in relation to asset ownership by our insurance business and employee pension Page 60
physical) in lending
plans.
and other financial
intermediary business – HSBC Asset Management recognises that climate-related risks may impact the operational and financial performance of Page 60
activities investee companies. The impact of these risks will vary depending on characteristics such as asset class, sector,
(supplemental business model and geography. HSBC Asset Management continues to integrate climate analysis into its actively
guidance for banks) managed product offerings and seeks to assess climate-related risks that could impact investment performance, where
applicable and relevant.
– Our relationship managers engage with our key wholesale customers, including those in higher transition risk sectors, Page 221
through a transition engagement questionnaire (‘TEQ’). In 2024, the TEQ was expanded to cover all geographies. The
TEQ helps to gather information and assess our wholesale customers’ business model alignment to a net zero transition
and their exposure to physical and transition risks. We use the responses to the questionnaire to risk-assess our key
wholesale customers.
– Under the Current Commitments scenario, our modelled outputs predict that ECL will not be more than 25% higher than the Page 225
counterfactual scenario for any of the assessed sectors. The highest impacts are seen in the chemicals, construction and
building materials, power and utilities and agriculture and soft commodities sectors. Greater climate risks would crystallise
in the Below 2 Degrees scenario with its gradually increasing transition to net zero, driven by pockets of customers in higher-
emitting sectors that are continuously exposed to larger climate-related losses.
– The UK is our largest mortgage market, and as of November 2024, made up 46.7% of our global mortgage portfolio. Our Page 221
ESG Data Pack includes our climate risk exposures for this portfolio across regions. The maturity profile of the UK mortgage
book shows that the average remaining contractual term in the UK is 21.8 years. This means our strategic approach to
climate risk considers both present day risk and long-term forward-looking risk, given that customers may choose to remain
with us over the lifespan of the loan. For the UK mortgage book, flood data is available for 93.7% of the mortgage book of
which 0.9% is at a very high risk of flooding, with 2.7% of the book at a high risk of flooding.
Additional
information

[PAGE 448]

Additional information
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’) continued
Disclosure
Recommendation Response location
b) Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organisation’s businesses, strategy and financial planning (Companies Act 2006
- Sections 414CA and 414CB 2A (e))
Impact on strategy, – We aim to help our customers transition to net zero and a sustainable future by providing and facilitating between $750bn Page 42
business, and and $1tn of sustainable finance and investment by 2030.
financial planning
– Climate scenario analysis supports our strategy by assessing our potential exposures to risks and vulnerabilities under a range Page 223
of climate scenarios. It is one of the key tools used to support the evaluation of portfolios in line with our net zero ambition.
Our 2024 scenarios considered the key regions in which we operate and were designed to assess the impact on our balance
sheet across three distinct periods: short term up to 2026; medium term from 2027 to 2035; and long term from 2036 to
2050.
– From a financial and capital planning perspective, we use climate scenario analysis to support the Group’s internal capital Page 223
adequacy assessment process (‘ICAAP’) to understand the amount of capital the Group should hold to meet identified
climate risks, including integration of climate impacts into the Group’s internal stress testing exercises.
– We have assessed the impact of climate risk on our balance sheet and have concluded that no incremental adjustments were Page 43
needed to capture climate impacts in our financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2024.
– We have used climate scenarios to inform our organisation’s business, strategy and financial planning. In 2024, we
continued to incorporate certain aspects of sustainable finance within our financial planning process.
– We do not fully disclose impacts from climate-related opportunities on financial planning and performance including on
revenue, costs and the balance sheet, quantitative scenario analysis, detailed climate risk exposures for all sectors and
geographies or physical risk metrics. This is due to transitional challenges in relation to data limitations, although nascent
work is ongoing in these areas. We expect these data limitations to be addressed in the medium term as more reliable
data becomes available and technology solutions are implemented.
Impact on products – We aim to help our customers transition to net zero and a sustainable future by providing and facilitating between $750bn Page 45
and services and $1tn of sustainable finance and investment by 2030.
– Thermal coal mining: In 2021, absolute on-balance sheet financed emissions decreased by 71% to 1.38 Mt CO 2 e relative Page 56
to the re-baselined 2020 figure. In 2022, the absolute on-balance sheet financed emissions of our portfolio decreased by
69% to 1.44 Mt COe relative to the re-baselined 2020 figure, and they rose by 4% from 2021 to 2022. The reduction
2
from the 2020 re-baselined figure was due to strategic decisions and temporary factors, such as low loan drawdown
levels.
Impact on supply – In 2024 we incorporated an additional supply chain data source to complement data from CDP (formerly the Carbon Page 58
chain and/or value Disclosure Project). We continue to improve the measurement, quality and reporting of our supply chain emissions data to
chain generate insights to drive targeted reduction activities.
– Our supply chain contributes c.81% of our operational emissions and is the area in which we face the most significant Page 58
decarbonisation challenge. Many suppliers are still in the early phase of their decarbonisation journey. We have stepped
up targeted efforts to support decarbonisation across our supply chain.
– We focus on building strategic partnerships that can help to create an enabling environment for mobilising finance, and Page 47
support development and scaling-up of solutions for the net zero transition. In 2024 we donated approximately $9m in
grant funding to help establish a portfolio of partnerships aligned to the strategic focus areas set out in our net zero
transition plan: transitioning industry, catalysing the new economy, and decarbonising trade and supply chains. We are
also supporting initiatives focused on driving progress on cross-cutting issues, such as nature and the just transition.
– As part of its stewardship activities, HSBC Asset Management engages on climate change issues with investee companies Page 60
on a priority list, as defined in its Stewardship Plan.
Impact on adaptation – In 2024 we achieved a 30.5% reduction in our energy consumption compared with 2019 (2023: 26.3%). This has been Page 58
and mitigation achieved through optimising the use of our real estate portfolio and carrying out a reduction in our office space and data
activities centres. We continue to optimise our assets to ensure greater efficiency and capitalise on new energy technologies. In 2024
we increased our purchase of electricity from renewable sources to 75.4% from 58.4% in 2023. This included increasing our
coverage of green tariffs in India and mainland China. Renewable electricity can help unlock our emissions reduction
potential, and we aim to achieve 100% renewable electricity across our own operations by 2030.
– This forward-looking data along with historical data helps inform real estate planning. We will continue to enhance our Page 228
understanding of how extreme weather events impact our buildings portfolio as climate risk assessment tools improve and
evolve. We buy insurance for property damage and business interruption and consider insurance as a loss-mitigation
strategy depending on its availability and price. We regularly review and enhance our building selection process and global
engineering standards and will continue to assess historical claims data to help ensure our building selection and design
standards address the potential impacts of climate change.
Impact on operations – We measure the impacts of climate and weather events on our buildings on an ongoing basis using historical, current and Page 228
scenario-modelled forecast data. In 2024, there were 40 major storms that had a minor impact on three of our buildings.
We use stress testing to evaluate the potential impact on our owned or leased premises. Our 2024 scenario stress test
analysed how nine climate change-related hazards – comprising coastal flooding, fluvial flooding, pluvial flooding, soil
movement due to drought, temperature extremes, water stress, wildfires, landslides and tropical cyclones – could impact
2,719 of our properties.
Impact on – Our five-year Climate Solutions Partnership with the World Resources Institute, WWF and over 50 local partners, Page 47
investment in continues to support nature-based solutions and energy transition in Asia. Since 2020, $105m in funding has been
research and deployed to our NGO partners. The energy programmes have engaged companies across Asia to help set new standards
development in climate commitments for their industries and mobilised finance to support the uptake of renewables. The nature
programmes supported the Asia Sustainable Palm Oil Links programme, focused on promoting sustainable palm oil
production, consumption and trade across Asia, and the Nature-based Solutions Accelerator, which supported projects to
reach investment readiness.
– We are a founding funder of the Just Transition Finance Lab, hosted at the LSE’s Grantham Research Institute, which Page 47
aims to accelerate solutions to achieve progress on climate and wider environmental goals through a people-centred
approach. Since its launch in early 2024, the Lab has produced a range of outputs including: mapping just transition
policies to a set of metrics, exploration of the role investors can play in facilitating a just transition in India, a case study of
the coal-to-clean shift in Chile, and a detailed examination of the financial path to a just transition in the critical minerals
sector.

[PAGE 449]

Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’) continued
Disclosure
Recommendation Response location
Impact on acquisitions – Our mergers and acquisitions process considers potential climate and sustainability-related targets, net zero transition Page 219
or divestments plans and climate strategy, and how this relates to HSBC.
Impact on access to – We have considered the impact of climate-related issues on our businesses, strategy and financial planning. Our access to
capital capital may be impacted by reputational concerns as a result of climate action or inaction. In addition, if we are perceived
to mislead stakeholders on our business activities or if we fail to achieve our stated net zero ambitions, we could
potentially face reputational damage, impacting our revenue-generating ability and our access to capital markets. We
expect to make the disclosure in the medium term as more data becomes available. To manage these risks we have
integrated climate risk into our existing risk taxonomy, and incorporated it within the risk management framework through
the policies and controls for the existing risks where appropriate.
Transition plan to a low- – In 2020, we set an ambition to become a net zero bank by 2050. Since then, we have taken various actions across our
carbon economy organisation to support implementation as set out in our net zero transition plan. We continue to review both our transition
plan and associated GHG targets to, where possible, ensure they remain consistent with assumptions used in our financial
planning, including related financial approach for the implementation of the transition plan in the medium term (e.g. amount
of capital and other expenditures supporting our decarbonisation strategy). The reference pathways we consider are global
and we do not currently set GHG targets for individual countries or entities; however, we continue to explore the use of
multiple climate-related scenarios to test achievability of the financed emissions targets and own operations ambition.
c) Describe the resilience of the organisation’s strategy, taking into consideration different climate-related scenarios, including a 2°C or lower scenario
(Companies Act 2006 - Sections 414CA and 414CB 2A (f))
Embedding climate into – Climate scenario analysis supports our strategy by assessing our potential exposures to risks and vulnerabilities under Page 223
scenario analysis a range of climate scenarios. It is one of the key tools used to support the evaluation of portfolios in line with our net
zero ambition.
– Our 2024 scenarios considered the key regions in which we operate and were designed to assess the impact on our Page 223
balance sheet across three distinct periods: short term up to 2026; medium term from 2027 to 2035; and long term
from 2036 to 2050.
Key drivers of – The 2024 climate scenario analysis exercise was designed to examine the climate risks and vulnerabilities of corporate Pages 225
performance and how counterparties, across high transition risk sectors under climate scenarios of varying severity. Specifically, we and 226
these have been taken measured the modelled effect on our projected ECL change over the short-, medium- and long-term horizons under
into account each scenario. This was compared to a counterfactual scenario that excludes climate change impacts to isolate the
climate only changes in ECL. Our analysis shows that over the longer term, we expect minimal losses to materialise
when considering the Current Commitments scenario.
– From a financial and capital planning perspective, we use climate scenario analysis to support the Group’s internal Page 223
capital adequacy assessment process (‘ICAAP’) to understand the amount of capital the Group should hold to meet
identified climate risks, including integration of climate impacts into the Group’s internal stress testing exercises.
– Climate scenario analysis also informs strategic planning by providing insights on the size and timing of financial Page 223
impacts, and IFRS 9 loss provisioning to ensure climate risks are adequately provisioned for in our balance sheet, such
as expected credit losses (‘ECL’).
Scenarios used and how – Our scenarios are: Downside Physical Risk scenario, Severe Climate Stress scenario, Current Commitments scenario, Page 223
they factored in Below 2 Degrees scenario and Delayed Transition Risk scenario.
government policies
– Our 2024 scenarios considered the key regions in which we operate and were designed to assess the impact on our Page 223
balance sheet across three distinct periods: short term up to 2026; medium term from 2027 to 2035; and long term
from 2036 to 2050.
– We have chosen these scenarios to provide a holistic view that supplements the Group’s current and future strategic Page 223
thinking. The 2024 climate scenarios are underpinned by well-established industry bodies such as Network for
Greening Finance Phase IV, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (‘IPCC’) and International Energy Agency
(‘IEA’), which are further enriched for additional granularity, ensuring consistency with industry-recognised work, and
reflecting the latest climate policy and economic outlook.
– The scenarios developed for climate scenario analysis are designed to examine HSBC’s financial performance and Page 223
capital resilience across a wide range of potential climate outcomes. They are sufficiently diverse to enable HSBC’s
key physical and transition risk vulnerabilities to be explored. To meet our global regulatory needs, we produced
several climate stress tests for regulators around the world, including the Hong Kong Monetary Authority (‘HKMA’).
How our strategies may – The analysis supports our approach to supporting our clients in the transition to net zero through assessing, where Page 223
change and adapt available, client level financial and credit risk metrics, and identifying where further analysis and climate risk focus is
required.
– In our net zero transition plan published in January 2024 we committed to continually calibrate our approach to take Page 42
into consideration the latest scientific methodologies, climate-related policies and developments in the real world
given that our sector portfolios reflect progress in the regional economies where we operate. See page 15 for details.
– Our target-setting approach to date for on-balance sheet financed emissions and facilitated emissions, has been to Page 48
utilise a single reference scenario – IEA’s NZE 2021 – to underpin both energy supply-related sectors (oil and gas;
power and utilities; and thermal coal mining), and our published targets for demand-side sectors in transport (aviation
and automotive) and heavy industry (cement; and iron, steel and aluminium).
– We do not currently fully disclose the impacts of transition and physical risk quantitatively, due to transitional
challenges including data limitations and evolving science and methodologies. In 2024, we disclosed the potential
impairment impacts for our wholesale and commercial real estate portfolios in different climate scenarios. We also
disclose our exposure to flooding in our retail mortgage book for specific markets. For our wholesale book, we
disclose potential implications on our expected credit losses for 11 sectors under two scenarios. These are
accompanied with a heat map, illustrating how we expect the potential risks to evolve over time under a variety of
scenarios.
Additional
information

[PAGE 450]

Additional information
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’) continued
Disclosure
Recommendation Response location
Risk management
a) Describe the organisation’s processes for identifying and assessing climate-related risks (Companies Act 2006 - Sections 414CA and 414CB 2A (b))
Process – The scenarios developed for climate scenario analysis are designed to examine HSBC’s financial performance and Page 223
capital resilience across a wide range of potential climate outcomes. They are sufficiently diverse to enable HSBC’s
key physical and transition risk vulnerabilities to be explored. We continue to enhance our climate scenario analysis
exercises so that we can have a more comprehensive understanding of climate headwinds, risks and opportunities to
support our strategic planning, actions and risk management.
– We continue to review policy implementation as we apply our sustainability risk policies in practice, and our Page 61
operationalisation of such policies continues to be enhanced. We take a risk-based approach when identifying
transactions and clients to which our sustainability risk policies apply and, where relevant, when reporting on relevant
exposures, adopting approaches proportionate to risk and materiality.
Integration into policies – We continue to integrate climate risk into policies, processes and controls across many areas of our organisation, and Page 220
and procedures we will continue to update these as our climate risk management capabilities mature over time.
Consider climate-related – We provide further details of how we have embedded the management of climate risk across key risk types, including Page 221
risks in traditional wholesale credit risk, retail credit risk, treasury risk, traded risk, reputational risk, regulatory compliance risk, resilience
banking industry risk risk, model risk, and financial reporting risk.
categories
(supplementary guidance
for banks)
b) Describe the organisation’s processes for managing climate-related risks (Companies Act 2006 - Sections 414CA and 414CB 2A (b))
Process and how we – The Group Risk Management Meeting and the Group Risk Committee receive regular updates on our climate risk Page 220
make decisions profile and the progress of our climate risk programme.
– The Environmental Risk Steering Meeting (formerly the Environmental Risk Oversight Forum) provides oversight of Page 220
environmental risk and the risk of greenwashing. Equivalent forums have been established at a regional level.
c) Describe how processes for identifying, assessing and managing climate-related risks are integrated into the organisation’s overall risk management
framework (Companies Act 2006 - Sections 414CA and 414CB 2A (c))
How we have aligned – Our climate risk approach is aligned to our Group-wide risk management framework and three lines of defence model, Page 219
and integrated our which sets out how we identify, assess and manage our risks.
approach
– We continue to develop our approach and climate risk capabilities across our businesses, by prioritising sectors, Page 219
portfolios and counterparties with the highest impacts, and recognise that this is a long-term iterative process.
– Our annual climate risk materiality assessment helps us to understand how climate risk may impact HSBC’s risk Page 219
taxonomy.
– In addition to this assessment, we also consider climate risk in our emerging risk reporting and scenario analysis. Page 219
How we take into – Our climate risk approach is aligned to our Group-wide risk management framework and three lines of defence model, Page 219
account which sets out how we identify, assess and manage our risks.
interconnections
– Through our climate risk programme, we have made progress on embedding climate considerations throughout our Page 130
between entities and
organisation. We also developed risk metrics to monitor and manage exposures, and further enhanced our internal
functions
climate scenario analysis. We continue to implement our climate risk programme to complete our annual materiality
assessment and make changes to our policies, processes and capabilities to better embed climate considerations
throughout our organisation.
– This includes increasing coverage and incorporating more mature data, climate analytics, frameworks and tools, and Page 219
responding to emerging industry best practice and climate-related regulations. This also necessitates reflecting on
how climate risk continues to evolve in the real world, and improving how we embed climate risk factors into strategic
planning, transactions and decision making across our businesses.

[PAGE 451]

Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’) continued
Disclosure
Recommendation Response location
Metrics and targets
a) Disclose the metrics used by the organisation to assess climate-related risk and opportunities in line with its strategy and risk management process
(Companies Act 2006 - Sections 414CA and 414CB 2A (h))
Metrics used to assess – We have metrics in place to monitor the exposure of our wholesale corporate lending portfolio to six high transition Page 221
the impact of climate- risk sectors. As at 31 December 2024, the overall exposure to the six high transition risk sectors was 18% of total
related risks on our loan gross carrying amount of wholesale loans and advances.
portfolio
– The UK is our largest mortgage market, and as of November 2024, made up 46.7% of our global mortgage portfolio. Page 221
Our ESG Data Pack includes our climate risk exposures for this portfolio across regions. The maturity profile of the UK
mortgage book shows that the average remaining contractual term in the UK is 21.8 years. However, with some
customers undertaking refinancing options during this term, the average term of the mortgage can be reduced to
between five and eight years. For the UK mortgage book, flood data is available for 93.7% of the mortgage book of
which 0.9% is at a very high risk of flooding, with 2.7% of the book at a high risk of flooding. We monitor the energy
performance certificate (‘EPC’) ratings of individual properties from A (highest efficiency) through to G (least efficient)
as EPCs are commonly used as an indicator of transition risk in the UK mortgage book.
– We have started to enhance our approach to managing net zero alignment risk in our wholesale portfolio, through Page 220
developing portfolio steering capabilities and revenue assessments. While we have made progress, further work
remains, including the need to develop additional metrics and tools to measure our exposure to climate-related risks.
Metrics used to assess – Since 1 January 2020, we have provided and facilitated a cumulative $352.5bn of sustainable finance and $41.1bn of Page 45
progress against ESG and sustainable investing, as defined in our Sustainable Finance and Investment Data Dictionary 2024. This
opportunities included 39% where the use of proceeds was dedicated to green financing, 12% to social financing, and 15% to
other sustainable financing. It also included 24% of sustainability-linked financing and 10% of net new investment
flows managed and distributed on behalf of investors.
– We do not currently fully disclose the proportion of revenue or proportion of assets, capital deployment or other
business activities aligned with climate-related opportunities, including revenue from products and services designed
for a low-carbon economy, forward-looking metrics consistent with our business or strategic planning time horizons.
In relation to sustainable finance revenue and assets, we are disclosing certain elements. We expect the data and
system limitations related to financial planning and performance, and climate-related opportunities metrics to be
addressed in the medium term as more reliable data becomes available and technology solutions are implemented.
We expect to further enhance this disclosure in the medium term.
Board or senior – To help us achieve our ESG ambitions, a number of measures are included in the annual incentive and long-term Page 17
management incentives incentive scorecards of the Group CEO, Group CFO and Group Executives that underpin the ESG metrics in the table
on page 17.
Internal carbon price – We do not currently disclose internal carbon prices due to transitional challenges, such as data challenges. However,
we considered carbon prices as an input for our climate scenario analysis exercise. We expect to further enhance this
disclosure in the medium term.
Metrics used to assess – As part of our 2024 climate scenario analysis exercise, we completed a detailed retail mortgage risk assessment for Page 226
the impact of climate the UK, US, Singapore and Malaysia. In our 2023 exercise we also assessed Hong Kong, Australia and mainland
risk on lending and China. Our coverage represented 91% of the balances in our global retail mortgage portfolio, across the two
financial intermediary exercises. For our Hong Kong portfolio, we completed a short- and long-term scenario analysis exercise during late
business (supplemental 2023 and early 2024 at the request of the HKMA. Our analysis shows that over the longer term, we expect minimal
guidance for banks) losses to materialise when considering the Current Commitments scenario.
– The impact on our wholesale portfolios is demonstrated by the table on page 225 which shows the size of exposures Page 225
by sector in 2024 and the cumulative change in ECL compared with a counterfactual scenario (expressed as a
multiple). The size of our exposure in each sector is represented by our exposure at default (‘EAD’) relative to one
another.
– We do not fully disclose metrics used to assess the impact of climate-related physical (chronic) and transition (policy and
legal, technology and market) risks on retail lending, parts of wholesale lending and other financial intermediary business
activities (specifically credit exposure, equity and debt holdings, or trading positions, broken down by industry,
geography, credit quality and average tenor). We are aiming to develop the appropriate systems, data and processes to
provide these disclosures in future years. We disclose the exposure to six, high-transition risk wholesale sectors as a
proportion of total wholesale loans and advances and the flood risk exposure and Energy Performance Certificate (‘EPC’)
breakdown for the UK retail mortgage portfolio.
Additional
information

[PAGE 452]

Additional information
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’) continued
Disclosure
Recommendation Response location
b) Disclose scope 1, scope 2 and, if appropriate, scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions and the related risks (Companies Act 2006 - Sections 414CA and
414CB 2A (h))
Our own operations – Our supply chain contributes c.81% of our operational emissions and is the area in which we face the most significant Page 58
decarbonisation challenge. Many suppliers are still in the early phase of their decarbonisation journey. We have
stepped up targeted efforts to support decarbonisation across our supply chain.
– We report GHG emissions associated with the energy used in our premises and employees’ business travel and our Page 59
supply chain in tonnes of CO2 equivalent. As more of our suppliers report their emissions, we should be able to
include more accurate data and fewer industry averages in the calculation. We have applied a data quality score to the
sources of data we used to determine counterparty emissions.
Greenhouse gas – Our analysis of financed emissions comprises ‘on-balance sheet financed emissions’ and ‘facilitated emissions’, which Page 48
emissions for lending we distinguish where necessary in our reporting. Our on-balance sheet financed emissions include emissions related to
and financial on-balance sheet lending, such as project finance and direct lending. Our facilitated emissions include emissions related
intermediary business to financing we help clients to raise through capital markets activities. Our analysis covers financing from Global Banking
(supplemental guidance and Markets, and Commercial Banking.
for banks)
– HSBC Asset Management recognises that climate-related risks may impact the operational and financial performance of Page 60
investee companies. The impact of these risks will vary depending on characteristics such as asset class, sector,
business model and geography. HSBC Asset Management continues to integrate climate analysis into its actively
managed product offerings and seeks to assess climate-related risks that could impact investment performance, where
applicable and relevant.
– We currently disclose partial scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions. We currently focus on disclosing only four out of
fifteen categories of scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions, including business travel, supply chain and financed
emissions, following our internal materiality assessment. In relation to financed emissions, we publish on-balance
sheet financed emissions for a number of sectors, covering 2.7% of our loans and advances to customers at
31 December 2023, as detailed on page 56. We also publish facilitated emissions for the oil and gas, and power and
utilities sectors. Data quality of future disclosures on financed emissions and related risks are reliant on our customers
publicly disclosing their greenhouse gas emissions, targets and plans, and related risks. We recognise the need to
provide early transparency on climate disclosures but balance this with the recognition that existing data and reporting
processes continue to require significant enhancements.
c) Describe the targets used by the organisation to manage climate-related risks and opportunities and performance against targets (Companies Act
2006 - Sections 414CA and 414CB 2A (g))
Details of targets set – We aim to help our customers transition to net zero and a sustainable future by providing and facilitating between Page 45
and whether they are $750bn and $1tn of sustainable finance and investment by 2030.
absolute or intensity
– We set interim 2030 financed emissions targets. However, we use different time horizons for climate risk
based
management. For climate risk, we define short term as time periods up to 2026; medium term is between 2027 and
2035; and long term is between 2036 and 2050. For financed emissions we do not plan to set 2026 targets. In 2024,
we disclose interim 2030 financed emissions targets for seven sectors comprising five on-balance sheet and two
combined financed emissions targets, as we outline on page 52. We have set combined on-balance sheet financed
emissions and facilitated emissions targets for two emissions-intensive sectors: oil and gas; and power and utilities;
and report the combined progress for both sectors. In 2025, we plan to review our targets to consider the latest net
zero-aligned scenarios available. For further details on the restatements and targets and progress of financed
emissions, see ’Our approach to emissions re-baselines and restatements’ and ‘Targets and progress’ on pages 51
and 52 respectively.
– We do not currently disclose a target for capital deployment. In relation to capital deployment, since 2015, we have
issued more than $2bn of our own green bonds and structured green bonds with the capital invested into a variety of
green projects, including: green buildings; and renewable energy and clean transportation projects. Following
extensive internal and external review of HSBC’s green issuance framework, we published the updated HSBC Green
Financing Framework in October 2024. This Green Financing Framework forms part of our sustainability strategy and
sets out our approach to allocating amounts equivalent to the net proceeds raised through certain instruments and
transactions against financing for businesses and projects that meet certain eligibility criteria. See the HSBC Green
Financing Framework at www.hsbc.com/investors/fixed-income-investors/green-financing-framework for further
information.
– We do not currently disclose an internal carbon pricing target due to transitional challenges, such as developing the
appropriate systems and processes, but we considered carbon prices as an input for our climate scenario analysis
exercise. We expect to further enhance the disclosure in the medium term as more data becomes available.
– We do not currently disclose targets used to measure and manage physical risk. This is due to transitional challenges,
including the data limitations of physical risk metrics. For retail, we do not use targets to measure and manage
physical risk. In 2024, we continued to use an internally developed global ‘soft trigger’ monitoring and review process
for physical risk exposure where a market reaches or exceeds a set threshold, as this ensures markets are actively
considering their balance sheet risk exposure to peril events. We also consider physical and transition risk as an input
for our climate scenario analysis exercise. We expect to further enhance our disclosures as our data, quantitative
scenario analysis, risk metrics and physical risk targets evolve, and technology solutions are implemented in the
medium term.
– We have described the targets used by the organisation to manage climate-related risks and opportunities and
performance against targets. However, taking into account the nature of our business, we do not consider water
usage to be a material target for our business and, therefore, we have not included a target in this year’s disclosure.
Other key performance – In 2024 we achieved a 30.5% reduction in our energy consumption compared with 2019 (2023: 26.3%). Page 58
indicators used
– In 2024 we increased our purchase of electricity from renewable sources to 75.4% from 58.4% in 2023. This included Page 58
increasing our coverage of green tariffs in India and mainland China. Renewable electricity can help unlock our
emissions reduction potential, and we aim to achieve 100% renewable electricity across our own operations by 2030.

[PAGE 453]

Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements
looking statements with respect to HSBC’s financial condition; results benefit pensions; societal shifts in customer financing and
of operations and business, including the strategic priorities; financial, investment needs, including consumer perception as to the
investment and capital targets; and ESG ambitions, targets and continuing availability of credit; exposure to counterparty risk,
commitments described herein. including third parties using us as a conduit for illegal activities
without our knowledge; the discontinuation of certain key Ibors
Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about
and the transition of the remaining legacy Ibor contracts to near
HSBC’s beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking statements.
risk-free benchmark rates, which continues to expose HSBC to
Words such as ‘may’, ‘will’, ‘should’, ‘expects’, ‘targets’, ‘anticipates’,
some financial and non-financial risks; and price competition in the
‘intends’, ‘plans’, ‘believes’, ‘seeks’, ‘estimates’, ‘potential’ and
market segments we serve;
‘reasonably possible’, or the negative thereof, other variations
thereon or similar expressions are intended to identify forward- – changes in government policy and regulation, including trade and
looking statements. These statements are based on current plans, tariff policies, as well as monetary, interest rate and other policies
information, data, estimates and projections, and therefore undue of central banks and other regulatory authorities in the principal
reliance should not be placed on them. Forward-looking statements markets in which we operate and the consequences thereof
speak only as of the date they are made. HSBC makes no (including, without limitation, actions taken as a result of changes
commitment to revise or update any forward-looking statements to in government following national elections in the markets where
reflect events or circumstances occurring or existing after the date of the Group operates); initiatives to change the size, scope of
any forward-looking statements. Written and/or oral forward-looking activities and interconnectedness of financial institutions in
statements may also be made in the periodic reports to the US connection with the implementation of stricter regulation of
Securities and Exchange Commission, summary financial statements financial institutions in key markets worldwide; revised capital and
to shareholders, offering circulars and prospectuses, press releases liquidity benchmarks, which could serve to deleverage bank
and other written materials, and in oral statements made by HSBC’s balance sheets and lower returns available from the current
directors, officers or employees to third parties, including financial business model and portfolio mix; changes to tax laws and tax
analysts. Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and rates applicable to HSBC, including the imposition of levies or
uncertainties. Readers are cautioned that a number of factors could taxes designed to change business mix and risk appetite; the
cause actual results to differ, in some instances materially, from practices, pricing or responsibilities of financial institutions serving
those anticipated or implied in any forward-looking statement. These their consumer markets; expropriation, nationalisation,
include, but are not limited to: confiscation of assets and changes in legislation relating to foreign
ownership; the UK’s relationship with the EU, particularly with
– changes in general economic conditions in the markets in which
respect to the potential divergence of UK and EU law on the
we operate, such as new, continuing or deepening recessions,
regulation of financial services; changes in government approach
prolonged inflationary pressures and fluctuations in employment
and regulatory treatment in relation to ESG disclosures and
levels and the creditworthiness of customers beyond those
reporting requirements, and the current lack of a single
factored into consensus forecasts; the Russia-Ukraine war and the
standardised regulatory approach to ESG across all sectors and
conflict in the Middle East and their impact on global economies
markets; changes in UK macroeconomic and fiscal policy, which
and the markets where HSBC operates, which could have a
may result in fluctuations in the value of the pound sterling;
material adverse effect on (among other things) our financial
general changes in government policy (including, without
condition, results of operations, prospects, liquidity, capital
limitation, actions taken as a result of changes in government
position and credit ratings; deviations from the market and
following national elections in the markets where the Group
economic assumptions that form the basis for our ECL
operates) that may significantly influence investor decisions; the
measurements (including, without limitation, as a result of the
costs, effects and outcomes of regulatory reviews, actions or
Russia-Ukraine war and the conflict in the Middle East, inflationary
litigation, including any additional compliance requirements; and
pressures, commodity price changes, and ongoing developments
the effects of competition in the markets where we operate
in the commercial real estate sector in mainland China); potential
including increased competition from non-bank financial services
changes in HSBC’s dividend policy; changes and volatility in
companies; and
foreign exchange rates and interest rates levels, including the
accounting impact resulting from financial reporting in respect of – factors specific to HSBC, including our success in adequately
hyperinflationary economies; volatility in equity markets; lack of identifying the risks we face, such as the incidence of loan losses
liquidity in wholesale funding or capital markets, which may affect or delinquency, and managing those risks (through account
our ability to meet our obligations under financing facilities or to management, hedging and other techniques); our ability to achieve
fund new loans, investments and businesses; geopolitical our financial, investment, capital and ESG ambitions, targets and
tensions or diplomatic developments producing social instability or commitments (including the positions set forth in our thermal coal
legal uncertainty, such as the Russia-Ukraine war or the conflict in phase-out policy and our energy policy and our targets to reduce
the Middle East (including the resurgence, continuation or our on-balance sheet financed emissions and, where applicable,
escalation thereof) and the related imposition of sanctions and facilitated emissions in our portfolio of selected high-emitting
trade restrictions, supply chain restrictions and disruptions, sectors), which may result in our failure to achieve any of the
sustained increases in energy prices and key commodity prices, expected outcomes of our strategic priorities; evolving regulatory
claims of human rights violations, diplomatic tensions between requirements and the development of new technologies, including
China and the US, which may extend to and involve other artificial intelligence, affecting how we manage model risk; model
countries, and developments in Hong Kong and Taiwan, alongside limitations or failure, including, without limitation, the impact that
other potential areas of tension, which may adversely affect HSBC high inflationary pressures and rising interest rates have had on
by creating regulatory, reputational and market risks; the efficacy the performance and usage of financial models, which may require
of government, customer, and HSBC’s actions in managing and us to hold additional capital, incur losses and/or use compensating
mitigating ESG risks, in particular climate risk, nature-related risks controls, such as judgemental post-model adjustments, to address
and human rights risks, and in supporting the global transition to model limitations; changes to the judgements, estimates and
net zero carbon emissions, each of which can impact HSBC both assumptions we base our financial statements on; changes in our
directly and indirectly through our customers and which may result ability to meet the requirements of regulatory stress tests; a
in potential financial and non-financial impacts; illiquidity and reduction in the credit ratings assigned to us or any of our
downward price pressure in national real estate markets; adverse subsidiaries, which could increase the cost or decrease the
changes in central banks’ policies with respect to the provision of availability of our funding and affect our liquidity position and net
liquidity support to financial markets; heightened market concerns interest margin; changes to the reliability and security of our data
over sovereign creditworthiness in over-indebted countries; management, data privacy, information and technology
Additional
information

[PAGE 454]

Additional information
infrastructure, including threats from cyber-attacks, which may accepted accounting principles. In particular, it is not possible to rely
impact our ability to service clients and may result in financial loss, on historical data as a strong indicator of future trajectories in the
business disruption and/or loss of customer services and data; the case of climate change and its evolution. Outputs of models,
accuracy and effective use of data, including internal management processed data and methodologies are also likely to be affected by
information that may not have been independently verified; underlying data quality, which can be hard to assess and we expect
changes in insurance customer behaviour and insurance claim industry guidance, market practice, and regulations in this field to
rates; our dependence on loan payments and dividends from continue to change. We also face challenges in relation to our ability
subsidiaries to meet our obligations; changes in our reporting to access data on a timely basis, lack of consistency and
frameworks and accounting standards, which have had and may comparability between data that is available and our ability to collect
continue to have a material impact on the way we prepare our and process relevant data. Consequently, the ESG-related forward-
strategic acquisitions and disposals; our success in adequately and Accounts 2024 carry an additional degree of inherent risk and
integrating acquired businesses into our business; our ability to uncertainty.
successfully execute and implement the announced strategic
Due to the unpredictable evolution of climate change and its future
reorganisation of the Group; changes in our ability to manage third-
impact and the uncertainty of future policy and market response to
party, fraud, financial crime and reputational risks inherent in our
ESG-related issues and the effectiveness of any such response,
operations; employee misconduct, which may result in regulatory
HSBC may have to re-evaluate its progress towards its ESG
sanctions and/or reputational or financial harm; changes in skill
ambitions, targets and commitments in the future, update the
requirements, ways of working and talent shortages, which may
methodologies it uses or alter its approach to ESG (including climate)
affect our ability to recruit and retain senior management and an
analysis and may be required to amend, update and recalculate its
inclusive and skilled workforce; and changes in our ability to
ESG disclosures and assessments in the future, as market practice
develop sustainable finance and ESG-related products consistent
and data quality and availability develop.
with the evolving expectations of our regulators, and our capacity
to measure the environmental and social impacts from our
No assurance can be given by or on behalf of HSBC as to the
financing activity (including as a result of data limitations and
likelihood of the achievement or reasonableness of any projections,
changes in methodologies), which may affect our ability to achieve
estimates, forecasts, ambitions, targets, commitments, prospects or
our ESG ambitions, targets and commitments, including our net
returns contained herein. Readers are cautioned that a number of
zero ambition, our targets to reduce on-balance sheet financed
factors, both external and those specific to HSBC, could cause actual
emissions and, where applicable, facilitated emissions in our
achievements, results, performance or other future events or
portfolio of selected high-emitting sectors and the positions set
conditions to differ, in some cases materially, from those stated,
forth in our thermal coal phase-out policy and our energy policy,
implied and/or reflected in any ESG-related forward-looking statement
and increase the risk of greenwashing. Effective risk management
or metric due to a variety of risks, uncertainties and other factors
depends on, among other things, our ability through stress testing
(including without limitation those referred to below):
and other techniques to prepare for events that cannot be
captured by the statistical models it uses; our success in – Climate change projection risk: this includes, for example, the
addressing operational, legal and regulatory, and litigation evolution of climate change and its impacts, changes in the
challenges; and other risks and uncertainties we identify in ‘Top scientific assessment of climate change impacts, transition
and emerging risks’ on pages 131 to 136. pathways and future risk exposure and limitations of climate
scenario forecasts;
graphics, infographics, text boxes and illustrative case studies and – ESG projection risk: ESG metrics are complex and are still subject
credentials which aim to give a high-level overview of certain to development. In addition, the scenarios employed in relation to
elements of our disclosures and to improve accessibility for readers. them, and the models that analyse them have limitations that are
These images, graphics, infographics, text boxes and illustrative case sensitive to key assumptions and parameters, which are
studies and credentials are designed to be read within the context of themselves subject to some uncertainty, and cannot fully capture
outcomes;
Additional cautionary statement – Changes in the ESG regulatory landscape: this involves changes in
government approach and regulatory treatment in relation to ESG
regarding ESG data, metrics and disclosures and reporting requirements, and the current lack of a
single standardised regulatory approach to ESG across all sectors
forward-looking statements
and markets;
looking statements (as defined above) with respect to HSBC’s ESG developing and are not standardised or comparable across all
ambitions, targets, commitments, climate-related pathways, sectors and markets, new reporting standards in relation to
processes and plans, and the methodologies and scenarios we use, different ESG metrics are still emerging;
or intend to use, to assess our progress in relation to these (‘ESG- – Data availability, accuracy, verifiability and data gaps: our
related forward-looking statements’). disclosures are limited by the availability of high quality data in
some areas and our own ability to timely collect and process such
In preparing the ESG-related information contained in the Annual
data as required. Where data is not available for all sectors or
Report and Accounts 2024, HSBC has made a number of key
consistently year on year, there may be an impact to our data
judgements, estimations and assumptions, and the processes and
quality scores. While we expect our data quality scores to improve
issues involved are complex. We have used ESG (including climate)
over time, as companies continue to expand their disclosures to
data, models and methodologies that we consider, as of the date on
meet growing regulatory and stakeholder expectations, there may
which they were used, to be appropriate and suitable to understand
be unexpected fluctuations within sectors year on year, and/or
and assess climate change risk and its impact, to analyse financed
differences between the data quality scores between sectors. Any
emissions - and operational and supply chain emissions, to set ESG-
such changes in the availability and quality of data over time, or
related targets and to evaluate the classification of sustainable
our ability to collect and process such data, could result in
finance and investments. However, these data, models and
revisions to reported data going forward, including on financed
methodologies are often new, are rapidly evolving and are not of the
emissions, meaning that such data may not be reconcilable or
same standard as those available in the context of other financial
comparable year-on year;
information, nor are they subject to the same or equivalent disclosure
standards, historical reference points, benchmarks or globally

[PAGE 455]

– Developing methodologies and scenarios: the methodologies and Any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of HSBC speak
scenarios HSBC uses to assess financed emissions and set ESG- only as of the date they are made. HSBC expressly disclaims any
related targets may develop over time in line with market practice, obligation to revise or update these ESG forward-looking statements,
regulation and/or developments in science, where applicable. Such other than as expressly required by applicable law.
developments could result in revisions to reported data, including
Written and/or oral ESG-related forward-looking statements may also
on financed emissions or the classification of sustainable finance
be made in our periodic reports to the US Securities and Exchange
and investments, meaning that data outputs may not be
Commission, summary financial statements to shareholders, proxy
reconcilable or comparable year-on year; and
statements, offering circulars and prospectuses, press releases and
– Risk management capabilities: global actions, including HSBC’s other written materials, and in oral statements made by HSBC’s
own actions, may not be effective in transitioning to net zero and Directors, officers or employees to third parties, including financial
in managing relevant ESG risks, including in particular climate, analysts.
nature-related and human rights risks, each of which can impact
HSBC both directly and indirectly through our customers, and Our data dictionaries and methodologies for preparing the above
which may result in potential financial and non-financial impacts to ESG-related metrics and third-party limited assurance reports can be
HSBC. In particular: found on: www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-business/
esg-reporting-centre.
– we may not be able to achieve our ESG ambitions, targets and
commitments (including with respect to the positions set forth in
our thermal coal phase-out policy and our energy policy, and our Certain defined terms
targets to reduce our on-balance sheet financed emissions and,
where applicable, facilitated emissions in our portfolio of selected Unless the context requires otherwise, ‘HSBC Holdings’ means
high-emitting sectors), which may result in our failure to achieve HSBC Holdings plc and ‘HSBC’, the ‘Group’, ‘we’, ‘us’ and ‘our’ refer
some or all of the expected outcomes of our strategic priorities; to HSBC Holdings together with its subsidiaries. Within this
and document the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the
People’s Republic of China is referred to as ‘Hong Kong’.
– we may not be able to develop sustainable finance and ESG-
related products consistent with the evolving expectations of our When used in the terms ‘shareholders’ equity’ and ‘total
regulators, and our capacity to measure the environmental and shareholders’ equity’, ‘shareholders’ means holders of HSBC
social impacts from our financing activity may diminish (including Holdings ordinary shares and those preference shares and capital
as a result of data and model limitations and changes in securities issued by HSBC Holdings classified as equity. The
methodologies), which may affect our ability to achieve our ESG abbreviations ‘$m’, ‘$bn’ and ‘$tn’ represent millions, billions
ambitions, targets and commitments, including our net zero (thousands of millions) and trillions of US dollars, respectively.
ambition, our targets to reduce our on-balance sheet financed
emissions and, where applicable, facilitated emissions in our
portfolio of selected high-emitting sectors and the positions set
forth in our thermal coal phase-out policy and energy policy, and
increase the risk of greenwashing.
Additional
information

[PAGE 456]

Additional information
Abbreviations
Currencies CRD IV¹ Capital Requirements Regulation and Directive
£ British pound sterling CRR¹ Customer risk rating
CA$ Canadian dollar CRR II¹ The regulatory requirements of the Capital Requirements
€ Euro Regulation and Directive, the CRR II regulation and the PRA
HK$ Hong Kong dollar Rulebook
MXN Mexican peso CSA Credit support annex
RMB Chinese renminbi CSM Contractual service margin
SGD Singapore dollar CVA¹ Credit valuation adjustment
$ United States dollar D
Abbreviations DECL Disclosures about Expected Credit Losses
1H24 First half of 2024 Deferred shares Awards of deferred shares define the number of HSBC
1Q24 First quarter of 2024 Holdings ordinary shares to which the employee will
2Q24 Second quarter of 2024 become entitled, generally between one and seven years
from the date of the award, and normally subject to the
3Q24 Third quarter of 2024
individual remaining in employment
4Q24 Fourth quarter of 2024
DPD Days past due
9M24 Nine months of 2024
DPF Discretionary participation feature of insurance and
A
investment contracts
ABS¹ Asset-backed security DVA¹ Debit valuation adjustment
ADR American Depositary Receipt E
ADS American Depositary Share
EAD¹ Exposure at default
AGM Annual General Meeting
EBA European Banking Authority
AI Artificial intelligence
EC European Commission
AIBL Average interest-bearing liabilities
ECB European Central Bank
AIEA Average interest-earning assets
ECL Expected credit losses. In the income statement, ECL is
ALCO Asset and Liability Management Committee
recorded as a change in expected credit losses and other
AML Anti-money laundering credit impairment charges. In the balance sheet, ECL is
AML DPA Five-year deferred prosecution agreement with the US recorded as an allowance for financial instruments to which
Department of Justice, entered into in December 2012 only the impairment requirements in IFRS 9 are applied
ANP Annualised new business premium EEA European Economic Area
ASEAN Association of Southeast Asian Nations Eonia Euro Overnight Index Average
AT1 Additional tier 1 EPC Energy performance certificate
B EPS Earnings per ordinary share
Banking NII Banking net interest income ESG Environmental, social and governance
Basel Basel Committee on Banking Supervision EU European Union
Committee Euribor Euro interbank offered rate
Basel II¹ 2006 Basel Capital Accord EVE Economic value of equity
Basel III¹ Basel Committee’s reforms to strengthen global capital and F
liquidity rules
FAST-Infra Finance to Accelerate the Sustainable Transition-
Basel 3.1 Outstanding measures to be implemented from the Basel Infrastructure
III reforms
FCA Financial Conduct Authority (UK)
BEPS Base Erosion and Profit Shifting FDIC Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
BGF Business Growth Fund, an investment firm that provides FFVA Funding fair value adjustment estimation methodology on
growth capital for small and mid-sized businesses in the UK derivative contracts
and Ireland
FPA Fixed pay allowance
BoCom Bank of Communications Co., Limited, one of China’s FRB Federal Reserve Board (US)
largest banks
FRC Financial Reporting Council
BoE Bank of England
FSCS Financial Services Compensation Scheme
Bps¹ Basis points. One basis point is equal to one-hundredth of a
FTE Full-time equivalent staff
percentage point
FTSE Financial Times Stock Exchange index
BVI British Virgin Islands
FVOCI¹ Fair value through other comprehensive income
C
FX Foreign exchange
CAPM Capital asset pricing model G
CDS¹ Credit default swap
GAAP Generally accepted accounting principles
CEA Commodity Exchange Act (US)
GAC Group Audit Committee
CET1¹ Common equity tier 1
GBM Global Banking and Markets, a global business
CGUs Cash-generating units
GDP Gross domestic product
CIB Corporate and Institutional Banking
GEC Group Executive Committee
CMB Commercial Banking, a global business
GHG Greenhouse Gas
CMC Capital maintenance charge
GMP Guaranteed minimum pension
CODM Chief Operating Decision Maker
GPS Global Payments Solutions, the business formerly known as
COSO 2013 Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Global Liquidity and Cash Management
Treadway Commission (US)
GPSP Group Performance Share Plan
Corporate Corporate Centre comprises Central Treasury, our legacy
GRC Group Risk Committee
Centre businesses, interests in our associates and joint ventures,
central stewardship costs and consolidation adjustments
CP¹ Commercial paper

[PAGE 457]

Group HSBC Holdings together with its subsidiary undertakings MENAT Middle East, North Africa and Türkiye
GTS Global Trade Solutions, the business formerly known as MREL Minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities
Global Trade and Receivables Finance MRT¹ Material Risk Taker
H MSS Markets and Securities Services, HSBC’s capital markets
and securities services businesses in Global Banking and
Hang Seng Bank Hang Seng Bank Limited, one of Hong Kong’s largest banks
Markets
HKEx The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited
N
HKMA Hong Kong Monetary Authority
HMRC HM Revenue and Customs Net operating Net operating income before change in expected credit
Holdings ALCO HSBC Holdings Asset and Liability Management Committee income losses and other credit impairment charges
Hong Kong Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People’s NGO Non-governmental organisation
Republic of China NII Net interest income
HQLA High-quality liquid assets NIM Net interest margin
HSBC HSBC Holdings together with its subsidiary undertakings NPS Net promoter score
HSBC Bank plc HSBC Bank plc, also known as the non-ring-fenced bank NSFR Net stable funding ratio
HSBC Bank HSBC Bank Middle East Limited NYSE New York Stock Exchange
Middle East O
HSBC Bank HSBC Bank USA, N.A., HSBC’s retail bank in the US OCI Other comprehensive income
USA
OECD Organisation of Economic Co-operation and Development
HSBC Canada The sub-group, HSBC Bank Canada, HSBC Trust Company OTC¹ Over-the-counter
Canada, HSBC Mortgage Corporation Canada and HSBC
P
Securities Canada, consolidated for liquidity purposes
HSBC HSBC Continental Europe PBT Profit before tax
Continental PCAF Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials
Europe PD¹ Probability of default
HSBC Finance HSBC Finance Corporation, the US consumer finance Performance Awards of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under employee
company (formerly Household International, Inc.) shares¹ share plans that are subject to corporate performance
HSBC Holdings HSBC Holdings plc, the parent company of HSBC conditions
HSBC Private HSBC Private Bank (Suisse) SA, HSBC’s private bank in Ping An Ping An Insurance (Group) Company of China, Ltd, the
Bank (Suisse) Switzerland second-largest life insurer in the PRC
HSBC UK HSBC UK Bank plc, also known as the ring-fenced bank POCI Purchased or originated credit-impaired financial assets
HSBC USA The sub-group, HSBC USA Inc (the holding company of PRA Prudential Regulation Authority (UK)
HSBC Bank USA) and HSBC Bank USA, consolidated for PRC People’s Republic of China
liquidity purposes Principal plan HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme
HSI HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. PVIF Present value of in-force long-term insurance business and
HSSL HSBC Securities Services (Luxembourg) long-term investment contracts with DPF
I PwC The member firms of the PwC network, including
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
IAS International Accounting Standards
R
IASB International Accounting Standards Board
IBE Independent Board Evaluation RAS Risk appetite statement
Ibor Interbank offered rate Repo¹ Sale and repurchase transaction
ICAAP Internal capital adequacy assessment process Revenue Net operating income before ECL
ICMA International Capital Market Association Reverse repo Security purchased under commitments to sell
IEA International Energy Agency RNIV Risk not in VaR
IFRS Accounting International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the RoE Return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity
Standards International Accounting Standards Board RoTE Return on average tangible equity
ILAAP Internal liquidity adequacy assessment process RWA¹ Risk-weighted asset
IMA Internal model approach S
IMM Internal model method SAB Saudi Awwal Bank
IRB¹ Internal ratings-based SAPS Self-administered pension scheme
ISDA International Swaps and Derivatives Association SASB Sustainability Accounting Standards Board
ISSB International Sustainability Standard Board SBTi Science Based Targets initiative
IVB HSBC Innovation Banking SDG United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals
IWPB International Wealth and Premier Banking SEC Securities and Exchange Commission (US)
J ServCo group Separately incorporated group of service companies
JV Joint venture established in response to UK ring-fencing requirements
K Sibor Singapore interbank offered rate
SIC Securities investment conduit
KMP Key Management Personnel
SME Small and medium-sized enterprise
L
Solitaire Solitaire Funding Limited, a special purpose entity managed
LCR Liquidity coverage ratio by HSBC
LGBTQ+ Lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer. The plus SPE¹ Special purpose entity
sign denotes other non-mainstream groups on the SVB UK Silicon Valley Bank UK Limited, now HSBC Innovation Bank
spectrums of sexual orientation and gender identity Limited
LGD¹ Loss given default
T
Libor London interbank offered rate
TCFD¹ Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures
Long term For our financial targets, we define long term as five to six
years, commencing 1 January 2025 THBFIX Thai Baht Interest Rate Fixing
TNFD Taskforce on Nature-related Financial Disclosures
LTI Long-term incentive
TSR¹ Total shareholder return LTV¹ Loan to value
U
M
UAE United Arab Emirates
Mainland China People’s Republic of China excluding Hong Kong and
Macau UK United Kingdom
Medium term For our financial targets, we define medium term as three
to four years, commencing 1 January 2025
Additional
information

[PAGE 458]

Additional information
UN United Nations
US United States of America
V
VaR¹ Value at risk
VIU Value in use
W
WEF World Economic Forum
WPB Wealth and Personal Banking, a global business
Accounts 2024 which is available at www.hsbc.com/investors.
HSBC Holdings plc
Incorporated in England and Wales on 1 January 1959 with
limited liability under the UK Companies Act
Registration number 617987
Registered Office and Group Head Office
8 Canada Square
London E14 5HQ
United Kingdom
Telephone: 44 020 7991 8888
Facsimile: 44 020 7992 4880
Web: www.hsbc.com
Corporate Brokers
Morgan Stanley & Co. International plc
25 Cabot Square
London E14 4QA
United Kingdom
Bank of America Securities
2 King Edward Street
London EC1A 1HQ
United Kingdom
HSBC Bank plc
8 Canada Square
London E14 5HQ
United Kingdom

[PAGE 459]

All rights reserved
No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval
system, or transmitted, in any form or by any means, electronic,
mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise, without the prior
written permission of HSBC Holdings plc
Published by Global Finance, HSBC Holdings plc, London
Designed by Global Finance, HSBC Holdings plc with Design Bridge
and Partners, London
Printed by Park Communications Limited, London, on Nautilus
SuperWhite board and paper using vegetable oil-based inks. Made in
Austria, the stocks comprise 100% de-inked post-consumer waste.
Pulps used are totally chlorine-free.
The FSC® recycled logo identifies a paper that contains 100% post-
consumer recycled fibre certified in accordance with the rules of the
Forest Stewardship Council®.

[PAGE 460]

HSBC Holdings plc
8 Canada Square
London E14 5HQ
United Kingdom
T: +44 (0)20 7991 8888
www.hsbc.com