[PAGE 1]

Barclays Bank UK PLC
31 December 2024

[PAGE 2]

Contents
Page
Strategic Report
Performance review 2
Performance measures 5
Managing risk 7
Customers and clients 10
Our colleagues 12
Society 13
Engaging with our stakeholders 15
Climate and Sustainability report 17
Governance
Governance Report (including Corporate Governance Statement) 22
Directors’ Report 32
Other Governance - Managing data privacy, security and resilience 35
Risk review
Risk review contents 38
Risk management 41
Material existing and emerging risks 45
Principal risk management 59
Risk performance 71
Supervision and regulation 152
Financial statements
Financial statements contents 159
Consolidated financial statements 170
Notes to the financial statements 178

[PAGE 3]

Strategic Report
Performance review
The Strategic Report was approved by the Board of Directors on 12 February 2025 and signed on their behalf by the Chair.
Overview
Barclays Bank UK PLC (the Company) is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Barclays PLC. The consolidation of Barclays Bank UK PLC and its
subsidiaries is referred to as the Barclays Bank UK Group. The term Barclays refers to Barclays PLC, or depending on context the Barclays
Group, and the term Barclays Group refers to Barclays PLC, together with its subsidiaries.
Barclays Bank UK PLC is the ring-fenced bank within the Barclays Group. The Barclays Bank UK Group contains the majority of the Barclays
Group’s Barclays UK division, including the Personal Banking, Business Banking and Barclaycard Consumer UK businesses, other than the
Barclays Partner Finance business.
Our structure
Barclays Bank UK PLC
Personal Banking Business Banking Barclaycard Consumer UK
Barclays is one of the most recognisable brands in the UK. We serve customers across a wide range of retail banking needs, from credit
card users, to start-up businesses, to homebuyers getting on the property ladder for the first time.
Personal Banking
Offers retail solutions to help customers with their day-to-day banking needs. From 1 November 2024, Personal Banking includes the retail
banking business (‘Tesco Bank’) acquired from Tesco Personal Finance plc – which includes credit cards, unsecured personal loans, savings
and operating infrastructure.
Business Banking
Serves business clients, from high growth start-ups to SMEs, with specialist advice.
Barclaycard Consumer UK
A leading credit card provider, offering flexible borrowing and payment solutions.
Barclays Bank UK PLC is supported by the Barclays Group service company, Barclays Execution Services Limited (BX), which provides
technology, operations and functional services to businesses across the Barclays Group.
The world in which we operate
As part of the Barclays Group, Barclays Bank UK PLC is driven by a common Purpose: working together for a better financial future. To do
so we must be strong as an institution, prepared for the future, and able to navigate different market conditions and evolving trends.
We regularly review our operating environment for emerging trends and adapt to address them. We are cognisant of those relevant to our
industry and have identified three areas we need to be aware of in the execution of our strategy. We continue to make good progress in
addressing them:
• The impact of technology on banking products and services
• The role of capital markets as the principal driver of global growth
• The transition towards a low-carbon economy
We reflect the environment in which we operate in the development of our strategy and evolution of our operating model. Barclays’ three-
year plan is designed to withstand volatility and uncertainty, and help us to continue to meet the needs of our wider stakeholders -
including customers, clients, regulators and shareholders.
In 2024, we saw an increase in the external pressures placed upon us, including protest activity from activists. The scale of our business
means we have a broad array of stakeholder groups to whom we respond. This can come with complex perceptions on varying topics and
voices of opposition on actions we take. Our priority has been to support our colleagues and continue to deliver for our customers and
clients.
We actively navigate risk and uncertainty, and are vigilant to deliver for our stakeholders as the environment evolves.

[PAGE 4]

Strategic Report
Performance review
Focus areas
• Delivering operational efficiencies to facilitate investment in growth.
• Improving customer experience and product offering, and creating opportunities to deepen relationships with our customers and
clients.
• Growing lending market share.
Year in review
Barclays Bank UK is one of the UK’s leading financial brands, trusted by over 20 million customers. In 2024 we focused on improving our
customer and client propositions and the precision in our execution. The strength of our business is reflected in our financial performance.
Our customers are at the heart of everything we do and in 2024 we have endeavoured to uplift the customer experience. While we have
more to do, we have seen meaningful improvements. Our targeted actions have led to a 36% reduction in customer complaints, an
improvement in customer satisfaction during phone call interactions, as well as increases in digital and Premier Net Promoter Scores
(NPS)1.
Optimising our footprint is important in delivering for our customers and clients. We have over 200 traditional, full-service branches across
the UK which we are investing in, for example, a complete refresh of our self-service devices is underway. We are also working closely with
our peers to deliver more shared banking hubs, enabling us to provide banking and cash services in areas not covered by our branch
network. We have opened 103 hubs in communities across the UK, as part of a joint commitment to open at least 350 within the next five
years.
Our customers and clients expect us to provide seamless, fast and reliable banking 24/7. The Barclays app has nearly five billion logins a
year, and in 2024 we’ve made progress in service and technology improvements. We’ve improved the app's features - including an
enhanced search function, the ability to increase daily payment limits, the ability to access cash from ATMs without a card, and
enhancements to our automated digital assistant.
Our customers want a broader proposition and we’ve improved our products and offerings. For example, we’ve added Apple TV+ to the
benefits included in Blue Rewards and given Premier customers access to all Barclays Blue Rewards features.
We’ve supported over 100,000 homebuyers and owners with their mortgage applications in 2024. A new Mortgage Charter journey has
enabled customers experiencing short-term payment difficulties to temporarily reduce their payments via the Barclays app, simplifying the
experience and helping them to make informed decisions. Our subsidiary, Kensington Mortgages, launched a new Step Down mortgage
where payments reduce after two years, helping customers facing financial changes. Kensington is currently the only mortgage provider in
the UK to offer this.
Through our Business Banking business, in 2024 we lent £2.17bn to SMEs to help them grow. We have also migrated 650,000 business
clients from legacy infrastructure and pricing onto a new standard current account tariff that provides streamlined, competitive pricing for
all.
In November 2024, we completed the acquisition of Tesco Bank, which includes credit cards, unsecured personal loans, savings and
operating infrastructure. Barclays Bank UK Group has also entered a long-term, exclusive partnership with Tesco Stores Limited for an
initial period of 10 years to market and distribute credit cards, unsecured personal loans and deposits using the Tesco brand, as well as to
explore other opportunities to offer financial services to Tesco customers. This builds on Barclays Bank UK Group’s existing strategic
partnerships with other leading brands.
Amazon co-branded credit card
Barclays has launched a co-branded credit card with Amazon that lets customers earn rewards on everyday spending both with Amazon
and with other retailers. The card has no annual fee and customers receive a £20 Amazon gift card upon approval.
The Amazon Barclaycard will help the bank further achieve its lending ambitions. It is the only co-branded consumer credit card that
Amazon offers in the UK and is the latest in a series of successful collaborations between Amazon and Barclays – including Instalments by
Barclays, a reusable credit line that lets Amazon customers in the UK spread the cost of purchases over time.
Business Banking lending
Research from Barclays2 revealed that business owners value convenience, speed and digital access to lending decisions, with the majority
stating they prefer to use online banking to apply. In response, our Business Banking team is making funding more accessible. For example,
previously, only clients with pre-assessed limits who were applying for less than £100,000 could apply online; everyone else had to contact
Barclays by phone or in person. In October 2024, we redesigned our digital journey to enable existing clients to complete a product
suitability assessment online before applying for lending, providing greater convenience.
Notes
2 Internal research based on a survey taken in November 2023 with 100 client responses.

[PAGE 5]

Strategic Report
Performance review
Looking ahead
Over the next two years, we will remain focused on improving our products and services, as we deliver for customers and strive to provide
a world-class experience. Our customers expect more from us, and we will continue to enhance and evolve our product offerings and how
they experience them.
Technology and innovation bring advancements. We will focus on delivering improved capability through functional and scalable
technology – simplifying by investing in digitisation, automation and data. Our digital channels – including our onboarding and application
processes, and our virtual customer care support – are being regularly upgraded. We are leveraging the use of AI to simplify and improve
operations; increasing efficiencies, and enhancing productivity, enabling colleagues to be there for customers and clients when they need
us the most.
We have the opportunity to meet our ambitions with a stronger market position in key product lines – becoming more balanced by
growing market share, particularly in unsecured and secured lending and business banking. We will leverage the Tesco Bank acquisition
and partnership to maximise the opportunity.

[PAGE 6]

Strategic Report
Performance measures
Financial performance measures
The performance of Barclays Bank UK PLC contributes to the Barclays Group, against which the delivery of strategy is measured.
Income statement
Barclays Bank UK Group results for the year ended 31 December 2024 2023
£m £m
Total income 8,423 7,670
Operating costs (4,412) (4,546)
UK regulatory levies1 (78) (30)
Litigation and conduct (21) 9
Total operating expenses (4,511) (4,567)
Loss on disposal of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures — (124)
Profit before impairment 3,912 2,979
Credit impairment charges (352) (308)
Profit before tax 3,560 2,671
Taxation (940) (749)
Profit after tax 2,620 1,922
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 2,422 1,745
Other equity instrument holders 198 177
Profit after tax 2,620 1,922
Income statement commentary
Profit before tax increased to £3,560m (2023: £2,671m) and includes continued investment in delivering a simpler, better and more
balanced retail bank.
Total income increased 10% to £8,423m, primarily driven by the £558m day 1 gain from the acquisition of Tesco Bank. Excluding the
impact of the day 1 gain, income increased 3% to £7,865m:
• Personal Banking income increased 13% to £5,452m, driven primarily by the day 1 gain from the acquisition of Tesco Bank. Excluding
the impact of the day 1 gain, income increased to £4,895m as continued structural hedge momentum and the Q4 2024 Tesco Bank NII
benefit was partially offset by adverse deposit dynamics and mortgage margin compression
• Barclaycard Consumer UK income decreased 3% to £938m due to lower interest earning lending balances resulting from higher
customer spend being more than offset by repayments
• Business Banking income increased 6% to £2,017m driven by continued structural hedge momentum, partially offset by lower
government scheme lending as repayments continue and lower deposit volumes
• Head Office income increased to £16m, related primarily to hedge accounting
Total operating expenses decreased 1% to £4,511m (2023: £4,567m) driven by lower structural cost actions and the transfer of Wealth
Management & Investments to Barclays Private Bank and Wealth Management within Barclays Bank PLC in May 2023, partially offset by
Q4 2024 Tesco Bank costs and inflation. Ongoing efficiency savings continue to be reinvested.
Credit impairment charges of £352m (2023: £308m), driven by the £209m day 1 impact from the acquisition of Tesco Bank partially offset
by a resilient credit performance in UK cards and UK Mortgages. UK cards 30 and 90 day arrears remained low at 0.7%2 (Q4 2023: 0.9%)
and 0.2%2 (Q4 2023: 0.2%) respectively. The UK cards total coverage ratio reduced to 4.8% (2023: 6.8%) following the day 1 impact from
the acquisition of Tesco Bank and release of the affordability linked adjustments.
The effective tax rate (ETR) was 26.4% (2023: 28.0%).
Notes
1 Comprises the impact of the Bank of England (BoE) levy scheme and the UK bank levy.
2 Excluding the impact of Tesco Bank acquisition

[PAGE 7]

Strategic Report
Performance measures
Balance sheet information
The following assets and liabilities represent key balance sheet items for the Barclays Bank UK Group:
2024 2023
As at 31 December £m £m
Assets
Debt securities at amortised cost 17,983 17,794
Loans and advances at amortised cost to banks 281 1,213
Loans and advances at amortised cost to customers 206,435 200,782
Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 27,045 20,409
Cash and balances at central banks 29,819 34,948
Liabilities
Deposits at amortised cost from customers 244,376 241,218
Balance sheet commentary
Loans and advances at amortised cost to customers increased 3% to £206.4bn, driven by a c.£8bn increase from the acquisition of Tesco
Bank, growth in unsecured lending and mortgage lending, partially offset by securitisation of mortgage balances in Q4 2024 and continued
repayment of government scheme lending in Business Banking.
Deposits at amortised cost from customers increased 1% to £244.4bn, driven by a c.£7bn increase from the acquisition of Tesco Bank,
partially offset by a reduction in Business Banking and retail current account balances, however these dynamics have stabilised throughout
2024.
The Barclays Bank UK PLC liquidity pool assets, including cash and balances at central banks, increased to £67bn (31 December 2023:
£65bn) driven by an increase in customer deposits.
Capital and other metrics1
As at 31 December 2024 2023
Common equity tier 1 (CET1) ratio 14.2% 14.8%
Total risk weighted assets (RWAs) £83.6bn £72.1bn
UK leverage ratio 5.3% 5.2%
Liquidity coverage ratio2 202% 180%
Net stable funding ratio3 159% 165%
The Barclays Bank UK Group CET1 ratio as at 31 December 2024 was 14.2%, which exceeds the CET1 regulatory capital minimum
requirement of 12.9%.
As a CRR firm, Barclays Bank UK PLC is required to disclose Return on Assets4, which was 0.9% in 2024 (2023: 0.6%). The Barclays Bank UK
Group Return on Assets was 0.9% in 2024 (2023: 0.7%).
Non-financial performance measures
Barclays Bank UK PLC is part of the Barclays Group which uses a variety of quantitative and qualitative measures to track and assess holistic
strategic delivery.
Barclays Bank UK PLC has addressed the Non-Financial Reporting requirements contained in sections 414CA and 414CB of the Companies
Notes
1 Capital, RWAs and leverage are calculated applying the IFRS 9 transitional arrangements in accordance with UK CRR. Effective from 1 January 2025, these
transitional arrangements no longer applied.
2 Represents the average of the last 12 spot month end ratios.
3 Represents the average of the last four spot quarter end positions.
4 Return on Assets is calculated as profit after tax divided by total balance sheet assets at the balance sheet date.

[PAGE 8]

Strategic Report
Managing risk
The Barclays Bank UK Group is exposed to internal and external risks as part of its ongoing activities. These risks are managed as part of
our business model.
Enterprise Risk Management Framework
Within the Barclays Bank UK Group, risks are identified and overseen in accordance with the Enterprise Risk Management Framework
(ERMF), which supports the business in its aim to embed effective risk management and a strong risk management culture.
The ERMF governs the way in which the Barclays Bank UK Group identifies and manages its risks. The ERMF is approved by the Barclays
PLC Board on the recommendation of the Barclays Group Chief Risk Officer; it is then adopted by the Barclays Bank UK Group with minor
modifications where needed.
The management of risk is then embedded into each level of the business, with all colleagues being responsible for identifying and
controlling risk.
In 2024, financial crime risk was elevated to a principal risk in the ERMF, effective from 1 January 2025. Previously, financial crime risk was
managed as part of compliance risk. Recognising the increased external threat of financial crime, this change will enhance transparency
and visibility of financial crime risk within the Barclays Bank UK Group and reinforce independent assessment, management and oversight
of financial crime risk.
On 1 November 2024, the Barclays Bank UK Group completed the acquisition of Tesco Bank. Following the acquisition, the acquired Tesco
Bank business continues to operate largely within its own risk framework, with dispensations in place for material divergences from
existing Barclays Bank UK Group policy requirements. Any subsequent changes to the Tesco Bank approach will be part of integration
planning activity.
Risk appetite
Risk appetite defines the level of risk we are prepared to accept across the different risk types, taking into consideration varying levels of
financial and operational stress. Risk appetite is key to our decision-making processes, including ongoing business planning and setting of
strategy, new product approvals and business change initiatives.
The Barclays Bank UK Group may choose to adopt a lower risk appetite than allocated to it by the Barclays Group but cannot approve a
higher risk appetite limit than determined by the Barclays PLC Board without its approval.
Three lines of defence
The first line of defence comprises the revenue-generating and client-facing areas, along with all associated support functions, including
Finance, Treasury, Human Resources and Operations and Technology. The first line identifies the risks, sets the controls and escalates risk
events to the second line of defence. Employees in the first line have primary responsibility for their risks and their activities are subject to
oversight from the relevant parts of the second and third lines.
The second line of defence is made up of Risk and Compliance and oversees the first line by setting limits, rules and constraints on their
operations, consistent with the risk appetite.
The third line of defence comprises Internal Audit, and provides independent assurance to the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board and the
Barclays Bank UK PLC Executive Committee on the effectiveness of governance, risk management and control over current, systemic and
evolving risks.
The Legal function provides support to all areas of the Barclays Bank UK Group and is not formally part of any of the three lines of defence.
The Legal function is responsible for proactively identifying, communicating and providing legal advice on applicable laws, rules and
regulations. Except in relation to the legal advice it provides or procures, it is subject to second line oversight with respect to its own
operational and compliance risks, as well as with respect to the legal risk to which the Barclays Bank UK Group is exposed.
Monitoring the risk profile
Together with a strong governance process, using business and the Barclays Group level Risk Committees as well as Board level forums,
the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board receives regular information in respect of the risk profile of the Barclays Bank UK Group. Information
received includes measures of risk profile against risk appetite as well as the identification of new and emerging risks, which are derived by
mapping risk drivers, identified through horizon scanning, to risk themes, and similar analysis. For further details of monitoring risks please
refer to page 43
During 2024, the Barclays Bank UK Group ran a macroeconomic internal stress test to assess its capital adequacy and resilience under a
severe but plausible macroeconomic scenario. This stress test targeted risks such as inflation, financial stress and a shock on demand; with
terminal low rates set to test the Barclays Bank UK Group’s vulnerabilities through NII (Net Interest Income) margin compression. The stress
test outcome for macroeconomic tests assesses full financial performance over the horizon of the scenario in terms of profitability, capital,
liquidity and leverage to ensure the Barclays Bank UK Group would remain viable.
We believe that our structure and governance supports us in managing risk in changing economic, political and market environments.
For further detailed analysis of approach to risk management and risk performance see the full Risk review on pages 38 to 158.

[PAGE 9]

Strategic Report
Managing risk
The Enterprise Risk Management Framework defines ten Principal Risks
Risks are classified into principal risks, as below How risks are managed
Credit risk The risk of loss to the Barclays Bank UK Group from the Credit risk teams identify, evaluate, sanction, limit and monitor
failure of clients, customers or counterparties (including various forms of credit exposure, individually and in aggregate.
sovereigns), to fully honour their obligations to the The first line deliver business plans and products within risk
Barclays Bank UK Group, including the whole and timely appetite and all limits set by the second line, by maintaining
payment of principal, interest, collateral and other detailed financial forecasts, applying controls and managing
receivables. risks to which they are exposed.
Market risk The risk of loss arising from potential adverse changes in Market risk teams use a range of complementary approaches to
the value of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s assets and identify and evaluate market risk exposures. These risks are
liabilities from fluctuation in market variables including, measured, limited and monitored by market risk specialists. The
but not limited to, interest rates, foreign exchange, equity first line conduct their activities within the risk appetite and all
prices, commodity prices, credit spreads, implied mandate & scale limits set by the second line.
volatilities and asset correlations.
Treasury Liquidity Risk: Treasury and Capital risk is identified and managed by specialists
and Capital The risk that the Barclays Bank UK Group is unable to in capital, liquidity and asset and liability management risks. A
risk meet its contractual or contingent obligations or that it range of risk management approaches are used such as limits
does not have the appropriate amount, tenor and plan monitoring and stress testing. The first line conduct their
composition of funding and liquidity to support its assets. activities within the risk appetite and all mandate & scale limits
set by the second line.
The assessment of Liquidity Risk should be comprehensive in
assessing all sources of Liquidity Risk, representing all of the
assets and liabilities, on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet
items including at the regional and legal entity levels.
Capital Risk: Capital Risk is predominantly assessed and controlled on a
The risk that the Barclays Bank UK Group has an forward-looking basis through the means of capital forecasts
insufficient level or composition of capital to support its and capital plans. Key Capital risks must be identified well in
normal business activities and to meet its regulatory advance to allow for mitigating actions to be agreed and
capital requirements under normal operating become effective.
environments and stressed conditions (both actual and Pension risks are monitored regularly and reported to relevant
as defined for internal planning or regulatory testing stakeholders and committees to support discussions with the
purposes). This also includes the risk from the Barclays relevant pension fund’s actuaries and trustees.
Group’s pension plans. IRRBB assessment uses earnings and value type metrics and it
takes into account the type of IRRBB, the accounting nature and
Principal Interest Rate Risk in the banking book: direct impact to earnings or capital; and, the appropriate holding
Risk The risk that the Barclays Bank UK Group is exposed to period of the risk.
capital or income volatility because of a mismatch CSRBB assessment must use earnings and value type metrics
between the interest rate exposures of its (non-traded) and it must take into account market liquidity spread, market
assets and liabilities. This also includes credit spread risk credit spread and other spread components which impact the
in the banking book, the risk that the Barclays Bank UK market price.
Group is exposed to capital or income volatility because
of changes in credit spreads on its (non-traded) assets
and liabilities.
Climate risk The risk of financial losses arising from climate change A risk management framework has been implemented for
through, physical risks and risks associated with managing financial and operational risks from climate change
transitioning to a lower carbon economy. across Barclays’ first and second line activities. A range of risk
management practices has been developed and enhanced for
identifying, measuring and quantifying the impact of climate
physical and transition risks in the financed portfolios. Climate
scenario analysis forms a key part of Barclays’ approach to
assessing and quantifying the impact of both physical and
transition risks. In addition, Barclays conducts climate risk
management activities at the level of key entities, including
proposing Climate Risk Appetite, identifying, assessing and
monitoring climate risk drivers, setting limits and other controls
to keep the bank within risk appetite, and reporting activities, as
appropriate.
Operational The risk of loss to the Barclays Bank UK Group from Operational risks are managed in accordance with the
risk inadequate or failed processes or systems, human factors Operational Risk Framework, owned and overseen by the
or due to external events (for example fraud) where the second line, and the standards within the Barclays Control
root cause is not due to credit or market risks. Framework. The primary responsibility for the management of
operational risk rests within the business and functional units
where the risk arises. Management complete Risk and Control
Self-Assessments to assess operational risks and the
effectiveness of the controls within processes. Identified risks,
events and issues are escalated to senior management and the
Board to ensure timely notification and to agree the appropriate
response.

[PAGE 10]

Strategic Report
Managing risk
The Enterprise Risk Management Framework defines ten Principal Risks
Risks are classified into principal risks, as below How risks are managed
Model risk The potential for adverse consequences from decisions The range of controls owned by first line includes: timely model
based on incorrect or misused model outputs and identification, robust model development, testing,
reports. documentation, annual assessment, and ongoing performance
monitoring. The range of controls owned by second line
includes: independent model validation, oversight over on-going
model performance, and execution of overall model risk
governance covering oversight and reporting and escalation to
appropriate forums and committees.
Compliance The risk of poor outcomes for, or harm to, customers, The first line is accountable for the overall assessment and
risk clients and markets, arising from the delivery of the management of compliance risks in their business or function
Barclays Bank UK Group’s products and services (also and are responsible for implementing the requirements outlined
known as 'Conduct Risk') and the risk to Barclays, its in the Compliance Risk Management Framework (CRMF).
clients, customers or markets from a failure to comply Compliance must oversee adherence to the CRMF and the
with the laws, rules and regulations applicable to the management of compliance risk, and provide independent
Barclays Bank UK Group (also known as Laws, Rules and second line of defence oversight to all Barclays businesses,
Regulations Risk 'LRR Risk'). providing advice and challenge where appropriate.
Reputation The risk that an action, transaction, investment, event, Reputation risk is managed by embedding our purpose and
risk decision, or business relationship will reduce trust in the values, and maintaining a controlled culture within the Barclays
Barclays Bank UK Group’s integrity and/or competence. Bank UK Group, with the objective of acting with integrity,
enabling strong and trusted relationships to be built with
customers and clients, colleagues and broader society. Each
business assesses reputation risk using standardised tools and
Principal the governance is fulfilled through management committees
Risk and forums, clear escalation and reporting lines to the Barclays
Bank UK Group Board.
Legal risk The risk of loss or imposition of penalties, damages or Legal risk is managed by the identification and management of
fines from the failure of the Barclays Bank UK Group to legal risks by the Legal function and the escalation of legal risk
meet applicable laws, rules and regulations or contractual as necessary. The Barclays Bank UK Group's businesses and
requirements or to assert or defend its intellectual functions have responsibility for engagement of the Legal
property rights. function in situations that have the potential for legal risk. Legal
risk is also mitigated by the requirements of the compliance risk
management framework, including the responsibility of the legal
professionals to proactively identify, communicate and provide
legal advice on applicable laws, rules and regulations.
Financial The risk that the Barclays Bank UK Group and its The first line is accountable for the overall assessment and
crime risk associated persons (employees or third parties) commit management of financial crime risks in their business or function
or facilitate financial crime, and/or the Barclays Bank UK and are responsible for implementing the requirements outlined
Group’s products and services are used to facilitate in the Financial Crime Risk Management Framework (FCRMF).
financial crime. Financial crime undermines market Financial Crime must oversee adherence to the FCRMF and the
integrity and may result in: harm to clients, customers, management of financial crime risk, and provide independent
counterparties or employees; diminished confidence in second line of defence oversight to all Barclays businesses,
financial products and services; damage to the Barclays providing advice and challenge where appropriate.
Bank UK Group's reputation; regulatory breaches; and/or
financial penalties.
Note
The ERMF defines ten Principal Risks. For further information on the how these Principal Risks apply specifically to Barclays Bank UK Group, please see pages
59 to 70.

[PAGE 11]

Strategic Report
Customers and Clients
The following sub-sections include a summary of the largely Barclays Bank UK PLC items with references to Barclays UK referring to the
businesses of Barclays Bank UK PLC and its subsidiaries. For further details, refer to the Customer and Clients section of the Barclays PLC
Providing an excellent customer and client experience is key to our strategy. We seek to understand our customers’ and clients’
expectations and aspirations, developing products and services to build their trust and supporting them to achieve their own ambitions.
Engaging with customers and clients
Through our retail bank in the UK we reach over 20 million customers – and our engagement with them helps us to continuously improve
the service we provide.
Barclays UK runs on average eight panels per month for Personal, Premier and Business customers and clients, who share their views on
our products and services and on their own financial health. These panels provide regular insights to bring us closer to our customers and
inform the evolution of our customer journeys, and to identify new opportunities to serve them, based on emerging trends.
In 2024, we collected over 1.2 million additional pieces of customer feedback. Customers told us they wanted their experiences with
Barclays to feel more personal, and showed continued demand for increased convenience and functionality from the Barclays app.
In response we have enhanced the app to ensure every new or updated customer experience feels personalised . Our digital experience is
one of the reasons we have more active digital users than any other UK bank.1
We have made progress in addressing the volume of Barclays UK customer complaints by improving the basics and enhancing customer
journeys – in 2024, we saw a 36% reduction in complaints versus 2023. However, we recognise there is still more to do to improve the
overall customer experience and address and remove the root causes of complaints.
This focus is at the core of our new vision and strategy as we work towards improving our propositions and execution in order to deliver
best-in-class service and ensure we have highly satisfied customers.
When issues do occur, our Complaints team works alongside customer-facing colleagues and Relationship Managers to investigate and
provide timely resolution. By logging complaints and analysing the root cause, we can identify underlying issues and trends – ensuring
accountability is embedded with the relevant internal teams. We also leverage technology in our call centres to help measure client
sentiment.
We are focused on offering an accessible, empathetic and inclusive service for all our customers – including for those who may typically
face barriers to banking services, such as people living with disabilities, complex needs or experiencing difficult life events. Please visit our
ESG resources hub for further information: home.barclays/sustainability/esg-resource-hub/reporting and disclosures/.
Reducing complaints during ISA season
ISA (Individual Savings Account) season is one of the busiest times in the UK banking calendar. Customers must invest before the end of
the tax year to use up their annual savings allowance and maximise their tax-free interest. In the weeks leading up to the deadline, we see
an uplift in customers contacting us for our help in making their money work for them.
In 2024, we focused on reducing the waiting time experienced by customers during ISA season, following feedback from customers in
2023. We introduced SMS alerts to keep customers up to date during their ISA application, as well as introducing self-service elements to
the process such as transferring money into their ISA via their channel of choice. This led to a 73% reduction in ISA-related complaints.
Note
1 eBenchmarkers, Spring 2024.
Barclays UK Net Promoter Score (NPS)
About this KPI and why we use it
Net Promoter Score (NPS) is used to measure the strength of customer relationships. We track NPS to identify both our strengths and
where there is room for improvement, informing how we develop our services and products in the future. Maintaining strong, personal
relationships and building trust and advocacy is key across all our divisions, but most observable and material in Barclays UK. With over 20
million customers, Barclays UK represents the largest customer base for which we serve customers throughout their financial lives.
How we performed
We maintained our NPS of +17. Underlying this, we saw significant improvements in Premier and our digital channel NPS. We continue to
focus on improving customer experience and service.

[PAGE 12]

Strategic Report
Customers and Clients
Barclays UK complaints
About this KPI and why we use it
The FCA publishes complaints information every six months – a good measure of how well UK institutions are driving customer outcomes.
We measure our volume of complaints, tracking against goals and reviewing root causes to inform changes to our products and services.
How we performed
In 2024, we saw a 36% reduction in customer complaints after putting in place a rigorous plan to address issues that cause them,
improving the basics and enhancing customer experience. We recognise there is more to do and addressing the root cause of complaints is
a continued focus for us.

[PAGE 13]

Strategic Report
Our colleagues
where specifically mentioned.
At the heart of achieving our plan to make Barclays Simpler, Better and More balanced are our colleagues. We are united by a shared
Purpose, Values and Mindset, delivering to a consistently excellent standard in all we do – and we are making Barclays a great place to
work, where every colleague can reach their potential.
Engaging with colleagues
Sharing our strategy and how colleagues can contribute towards delivery has been a key part of our 2024 engagement. Regular, two-way
dialogue helps us to understand what is working well across the organisation and where we can improve.
Engagement with colleagues is delivered through townhalls, skip-level meetings, site visits, leader-led sessions, focus groups and surveys.
Through our bi-annual all-colleague Your View surveys, our people have the opportunity to share their feedback on working at Barclays –
and in 2024 we saw the highest participation to date, with 79% of colleagues taking part. We create a respectful and inclusive environment
where colleagues feel safe to speak up. Additionally, our raising concerns and whistleblowing processes provide anonymous channels for
colleagues if preferred.
Our long-standing partnership with Unite in the UK also offers further insight into the views of our people. We continue to consult with
Unite on major change programmes, to minimise compulsory job losses and focus on reskilling and redeployment.
Continuing to deliver a consistently excellent standard
A consistently excellent standard is an integral part of our culture and a key enabler of our three-year plan. It continues to be embedded
through the Barclays Group-wide multi-year Consistently Excellent culture change programme. In 2024, our focus has been supporting
colleagues from understanding what it means to deliver to a higher standard to putting it into practice every day, with a focus on
strengthening risk management and controls. We have rolled out Consistently Excellent workshops and we’ve also launched new risk and
control focused training.
This standard is now central to our hiring, promotion and colleague performance management processes. We continued to recognise
colleagues for high standards through our recognition portal, our CEO Awards and our Exceptional Achievement Awards.
Our leaders are critical here and, for the second year running, members of the Barclays Group Executive Committee visited sites across the
world to talk about being consistently excellent – with a focus on how this enables delivery of the strategic plan.
We continue to measure colleague understanding of what it means to be consistently excellent. To learn more about the 2024 Your View
Investing in our talent
Our talent ambition continues to underpin Barclays’ approach to talent attraction, retention and development. In 2024 we refreshed,
simplified and enhanced our selection experience and introduced a new single Global Talent Framework. We also introduced a new HR
platform to deliver these changes at scale to our people. Our leadership framework continues to set the benchmark for what it means to
lead at Barclays. It is the foundation for our leaders to improve how they lead and create an environment where colleagues can learn, grow
and succeed.
Development opportunities empower colleagues to build skills, advance their career and achieve sustainable high performance. We
continue to deliver our key leadership development programmes - Strategic Leaders and Aspire, alongside our People Leader programme,
Evolution, equipping our people leaders with effective management skills. All colleagues also have access to online learning addressing an
extensive range of development topics.
Our ambitions
Building an inclusive and equitable culture, reflecting a diversity of views and backgrounds, where all colleagues can thrive is a business
priority. We are focused on actions and outcomes that support a culture of belonging and diversity of thought. Our initiatives help to
develop a leadership pipeline through which qualified candidates are considered for leadership roles regardless of their gender, race, or any
other protected characteristic.
Supporting our workforce
Helping our people be at their best remains a priority. Our structured hybrid working model enables colleagues to connect in-person and
plan their work to make the most of their time in the office and at home, where appropriate to their role. We continue to test and learn
from our approach.
We are also focused on supporting colleague wellbeing. We use data-driven insights and engagement through campaigns to help our
people build healthy habits and promote a supportive culture.
Our people policies
Our people policies help us recruit the best people, provide equal opportunities and create an inclusive culture, in line with our Purpose,
Values and Mindset, and in support of our long-term success. They are regularly reviewed and updated to ensure they are aligned with our
broader people strategy.

[PAGE 14]

Strategic Report
Society
Our success is measured not only by our commercial performance, but also by our contribution to society and the way we work together
for a better financial future for all our stakeholders. Our focus on society falls broadly into three categories: Climate, Communities and
Sustainability Report from page 17 to 20.
Communities
We are committed to supporting the communities where we operate by enabling people to develop the skills and confidence they need to
succeed, and helping businesses to grow and create jobs. Our focus is on building a stronger and more inclusive economy.
Working together for a better financial future, we regularly engage with our community partners to deepen our understanding of societal
issues and evolve our programmes accordingly. Formal quantitative and qualitative information is provided by our charity partners on a
quarterly basis and we frequently seek feedback from the business leaders that we support through our programmes.
This feedback and data helps inform and shape our strategic focus to ensure our work best serves the needs of the people and businesses
we support.
Skills and employability
A vibrant, skilled workforce ensures local communities and businesses can thrive, and supports economic growth.
Barclays LifeSkills has been delivering positive impact in communities for over a decade, helping millions of people develop the vital
employability and financial skills they need to succeed at work and better manage their money. Barclays aims to upskill 8.7 million people
and place 250,000 people into work through the LifeSkills programme from 2023 to 2027. In 2024, we upskilled 1.95m people and placed
53,494 people into work.
Our Digital Eagles programme has upskilled 813,877 people in 2024, enabling people to become more confident with technology and stay
safe online.
Through our Military and Veterans Outreach we are supporting members of the armed forces community to take the next step in their
career, as they transition to life after service.
We continued our work to engage and strengthen communities through sport. The Barclays Community Football Fund now helps more
than 3,500 community sports groups make football more accessible to underrepresented groups, reaching more than 550,000 young
people. In 2024, Barclays and The Football Association extended their partnership through the Barclays Girl’s Football School Partnerships
until 2028, with the number of participating schools reaching 20,000,
In 2024, we marked our second year as the Official Banking Partner of Wimbledon. In 2025, we became principal partner of Marylebone
Cricket Club (MCC), owners of Lord’s Cricket Ground in the UK.
Through our partnership with the Wimbledon Foundation, we connected Barclays LifeSkills to the UK Set for Success programme –
engaging over 500 young people from 2023-2024. We also became Official Parks and Participation Partner of the Lawn Tennis Association
– aiming to get 150,000 more people playing tennis across Great Britain over the next five years.
Supporting educators across the UK
LifeSkills resources are used in UK schools and colleges, integrated into lessons to support educators to encourage students’ learning
across a range of skills. The programme positively impacts the young people it engages, with 97% of students reporting an improvement in
knowledge and skills.
Partnering with charities that support underserved young people, such as The Talent Foundry, we work to ensure young people who need
support the most can develop valuable transferable skills, knowledge and confidence through facilitated workshops.
In 2024, Barclays LifeSkills launched new modules on entrepreneurship, exploring the role of technology and importance of sustainability.
We also launched our first lessons for 5 to 7-year-olds, focused on counting money and budgeting.
Empowering female entrepreneurs
Since its 2023 launch, Barclays Eagle Labs' Female Founder Accelerator programme, funded by the UK Government and created in
partnership with AccelerateHER, has supported 200 female-led UK technology businesses by providing their founders with access to
advice, mentoring and networking opportunities.
Separately in 2024, Barclays Business Banking has provided 1,600 hours of specialist coaching to over 400 female founders on topics
including business planning, cash flow forecasts, digital support and accessing finance. Additionally, Barclays’ Head of Business Banking,
Hannah Bernard, became the co-chair of the UK Government’s Invest in Women Taskforce.

[PAGE 15]

Strategic Report
Society
Suppliers
The Barclays Group engages with Third Party Service Providers (TPSP1), seeking to integrate sustainability considerations across our supply
chain and provide inclusive procurement opportunities and drive economic impact to diverse TPSP2 (in addition to publicly traded, large
businesses).
Notes
1 TPSP means any entity that has entered an arrangement with Barclays in order to provide business functions, activities, goods and/or services to Barclays.
2 Diverse TPSP include businesses diverse in size (micro, small and medium-sized businesses), demographic ownership make-up (largely owned and
controlled by members of under-represented groups) or mission (social enterprises

[PAGE 16]

Strategic Report
Engaging with our stakeholders
Section 172(1) Statement
How the Board has regard to the views of our stakeholders
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 (the Act), this statement sets out how the Directors have had regard to the matters set out in
Section 172(1) of the Act when performing their duty to promote the success of the Company for the benefit of its shareholder, and to
have regard to:
a. the likely consequences of any decision in the long term;
b. the interests of employees;
c. the need to foster business relationships with suppliers, customers and others;
d. the impact of operations on the community and the environment;
e. the desirability of maintaining a reputation for high standards of business conduct; and
f. the need to act fairly as between shareholders.
Overview
Throughout the year, the Board and individual Directors engage directly and indirectly with a range of stakeholders to ensure they have a
deep understanding of the impact of the Barclays Bank UK Group's operations, as well as their interests and views. This includes meeting
with customers and clients, colleagues, regulators, and other stakeholders. This engagement, both directly and through reporting by
executive management, to whom the day-to-day operations of the business are delegated, seeks to ensure the Board understands the key
issues to enable the Directors to comply with their legal duty under Section 172(1).
For more information on the Company’s key stakeholder groups and how we listen and respond to them, please refer to the “Customer &
Clients”, “Our colleagues” and “Society” sections of the Strategic Report. Further relevant information regarding the Barclays Group's key
stakeholder groups and how we listen and respond to them can be found in the “Our stakeholders” section of the Barclays PLC 2024
You can find out more about how the Directors have had regard to the matters set out in Section 172(1) when discharging their duty, and
the effect of those considerations in reaching certain decisions below and in the “Principal activities of the Board in 2024” section of the
Governance Report.
Barclays Bank UK Group elements of the Barclays Group strategy
In February 2024, the Barclays Group announced a new three-year plan to create a “Simpler, Better and More Balanced Bank” to improve
the Barclays Group’s operational and financial performance, and total shareholder returns. The Barclays Group also set financial targets to
match this ambition and improve outcomes for all stakeholders. This strategy is reinforced by the redefined purpose: “Working together for
a better financial future” which emphasises that the way we operate has a strong connection to the Barclays Group’s values. For customers
that means helping improve livelihoods. For clients it’s growth and scaling business. For communities, it represents upliftment, fulfilling
potential beyond circumstance. And for colleagues, it provides a clear direction on why we exist and how we behave.
Ahead of the Barclays Group’s announcement, and in line with the Board’s responsibility to establish a strategy for both the Company and
the Barclays Bank UK Group, in 2023 the Board provided significant input into and oversight of the shaping of the Barclays Bank UK Group
elements of the Barclays Group strategy, including the focus areas and related financial targets. As explained in the Strategic Report, for
Barclays UK, a “Simpler, Better and More Balanced” retail bank means delivering operational efficiencies to facilitate investment in growth,
improving customer experience and product offering, and growing lending market share, particularly in business banking as well as
secured and unsecured lending.
Aligned to the focus areas, and throughout the year, the Board received updates from the heads of each business and operations who
presented on strategy execution and performance against agreed targets. The Board Audit Committee considered the associated financial
reporting and operation of internal controls, while the Board Risk Committee received first and second line reporting to ensure close
oversight of the respective risks. This has facilitated greater accountability at a business level and has supported closer monitoring, and
measurement, of success.
In support of a “More Balanced” retail bank, in late 2023, the Board first considered the opportunity to acquire Tesco Bank’s retail banking
business and to enter into a long-term, exclusive partnership with Tesco Stores Limited for an initial period of 10 years to market and
distribute credit cards, unsecured personal loans and deposits using the Tesco brand and to explore opportunities to offer financial services
to Tesco customers. Key factors in the Board’s deliberations included: the alignment of the opportunity with the Barclays Bank UK Group’s
strategy to grow lending market share; the demands that the acquisition, integration activity and management of the partnership would
place on the business – including colleagues – in the short to medium-term; the impact of the acquisition on Tesco Bank colleagues and
customers; and whether the acquisition and the partnership would promote the success of the Company thereby creating and delivering
long-term, sustainable value for its sole shareholder, Barclays, and – in turn – Barclays’ shareholders.
On 9 February 2024, the acquisition and the partnership were announced; completion occurred on 1 November 2024. Throughout the
period between signing and completion, the Board and Board Committees exercised regular and robust oversight over preparation for
completion and readiness for “day one”, including but not limited to the approach to migration, with a particular focus on ensuring a
smooth transition for Tesco Bank colleagues and customers.
Post-completion, the Board, Board Audit Committee and Board Risk Committee have continued to receive regular updates on the Tesco
Bank business, including but not limited to accounting considerations (including fair value of assets and liabilities acquired), the control
environment, risk mitigation, and future plans for the business and the partnership. The Board was kept apprised on appropriate
engagement with Tesco Bank colleagues in the lead up to completion and, since November 2024, has encouraged Executive Committee

[PAGE 17]

Strategic Report
Engaging with our stakeholders
members to strengthen further the close connection with those individuals and drive stronger collaboration. The Board looks forward to
meeting Tesco Bank colleagues in due course, including when it visits the Tesco Bank office in Edinburgh later this year.
The Board and Board Committees will continue to receive updates on the Tesco Bank business and the partnership through 2025 and
beyond so that the Directors can ensure that any decisions taken – for example, in relation to integration activity and/or other
opportunities to offer financial services to Tesco customers pursuant to the partnership – will promote the success of the Company and
take into account the interests and views of the Company’s stakeholders.
Barclays and the external environment
Global political and societal changes continued to present challenges to the Barclays Group throughout 2024. In response to the conflict in
the Middle East, the Barclays Group was subject to ongoing criticism and protest activity, including hundreds of attacks to bank branches
across the UK that resulted in significant damage. The Board, which was deeply concerned about the safety of colleagues and the
disruption created for customers, oversaw the response to the attacks with the support of the Board Risk Committee. This included, but
was not limited to, certain Board and Executive Committee members engaging with colleagues who were at the forefront to understand
the impact of the attacks (for example, by visiting affected branches) and putting in place additional measures to ensure the security of
colleagues and customers.
Consumer Duty
Bank UK Group. This outcomes-based regulation is designed to ensure relevant financial services firms deliver good outcomes for retail
customers. During 2024, the Board and the Board Risk Committee have overseen the continued embedment of the Consumer Duty for in-
scope products and services as well as planning and readiness for the second implementation deadline of 31 July 2024 for closed products
and services (being those products and services that have not been marketed or distributed to customers after 31 July 2023). This has
included enhancing fair value assessments in accordance with FCA insights, monitoring customer outcomes via Consumer Duty reporting
and the quarterly Customer Outcomes Report, and receiving risks and issues reporting.
The Barclays Bank UK PLC Board Consumer Duty Champion (a nominated Board member) was closely engaged in producing the first
Annual Consumer Duty Board Report, which assessed whether the business was delivering good outcomes for retail customers. In July
2024, the Board - supported by its Consumer Duty Champion - considered and approved the Report, concluding that the strategy, purpose
and ambition of the Barclays Bank UK Group is aligned with the Consumer Duty.
The Board remains committed to ensuring good customer outcomes and will continue to focus on Consumer Duty embedment during
2025, giving consideration to the impact of any regulatory developments in relation to Consumer Duty.
Sir John Kingman
Chair – Barclays Bank UK PLC
12 February 2025

[PAGE 18]

Climate and Sustainability report
Embedding Barclays’ climate strategy within Barclays Bank UK
references to Barclays UK referring to the businesses of Barclays Bank UK PLC and its subsidiaries. The content has been included to the
extent this is relates to Barclays Bank UK as a subsidiary of the Barclays Group. For full details on targets and ambitions, refer to the Climate
sustainability.
Climate related risks
The Barclays climate strategy is underpinned by the way it assesses and manages exposure to climate-related risk. Climate risk is a
Principal Risk within the Barclays Enterprise Risk Management Framework.
Barclays faces exposure to climate-related risks either directly through its operations and infrastructure or indirectly through its financing
and investment activities. The two main categories of climate risk are physical risks and transition risks.
- Physical risk is defined as the risk of financial losses related to physical impacts of a changing climate. Physical risks can be event driven
(acute risks), including increased frequency and/or severity of extreme weather events such as cyclones, hurricanes and flood. Longer term
shifts in climate patterns (chronic risks) arise from sustained higher temperatures that may cause rises in sea levels, rising mean
temperatures and more severe weather events such as increased occurrence of floods or fires.
- Transition risk is defined as the risk of financial losses caused by extensive policy, legal, technology and market changes to address
mitigation and adaptation requirements related to climate change.
Physical and transition risks can have varying degrees of impact on Barclays and its clients, influenced by geographic and jurisdictional
factors, including differing vulnerabilities to physical hazards like flooding and hurricanes as well as diverse regulatory requirements that
must be adhered to for transitioning to a low-carbon economy.
Climate change as a driver of risk
The feedback effects of climate risk drivers through macro and micro transmission channels are observed in Barclays' portfolio through
traditional risk categories such as credit risk, market risk, treasury and capital risk, operational risk and reputational risk. The approach for
managing climate-related risks is consistent with other key risks, however there remains significant uncertainty around when these risks
will materialise.
Barclays has implemented a risk management framework for Climate Risk which integrates within the broader Enterprise Risk Management
Framework aiming to guide effective management of climate risk and support the delivery of its climate strategy. Barclays' approach and
framework undergoes regular reviews and updates – including changes to the risk taxonomy, definitions and methodology – to align with
changing regulatory expectations and external developments.
The potential impacts of physical and transition risk drivers will vary across Barclays' portfolios depending on composition, industry,
geographic location, business operations and other contextual factors.
Progress against targets, convergence points and ambitions
UK Housing
During 2024, we further expanded the scope of UK Housing to include our Kensington Mortgage Company Limited book. Our UK Housing
portfolio’s emissions intensity decreased by 1% during this period. This reflects the dependence of the decarbonisation of UK Housing on
external changes and public policy interventions. Without these external changes, Barclays cannot materially decrease the emissions
intensity of its UK Housing portfolio, which is why we continue to measure our progress against a 2030 emissions intensity 'convergence
point', but not set a formal target at this time. We have made strong progress against our EPC ambition for 55% of in scope properties and
collateral with a known EPC to be rated band C or better by 2030, achieving 49.7% by the end of 2024.
UK Agriculture
An improvement in data quality, achieved through the integration of farm-level data, has allowed us to enhance the Dairy & Livestock
BlueTrackTM model, now as an asset-based emissions model (see BlueTrackTM financed emissions methodology). Over time, this will enable
us to better assess the impact of on-farm emissions reduction measures and where our clients are making positive change. We have re-
baselined our 2023 Agriculture model on this basis. This does not impact the existing 21% reduction target from 2023-2030.
In 2024, our UK Agriculture portfolio absolute financed emissions have reduced by 11%. This reflects the alignment of our financing
activity towards clients with lower emissions profiles and those taking positive action towards reducing on-farm emissions. We also
consider impacts from changes in client company value, which can fluctuate year to year and is reported at a delay due to the size of clients
in this portfolio.
However, we continue to face challenges to calculating emissions in the sector, notably a lack of data on the activities and practices of our
agricultural customers, and modelling challenges around agricultural emissions intensity. To help advance approaches to Agriculture
financed emissions measurement, and target setting in the banking sector more broadly, Barclays is a member of the Banking for Impact
on Climate in Agriculture (B4ICA) working group. We are also engaged in a three-year collaboration with Oxford University to develop food
type production datasets for the UK, with the aim of quantifying Barclays-financed emissions in more detail and consider additional
transition risks.

[PAGE 19]

Climate and Sustainability report
Barclays UK sustainability strategy
In 2024, we have made progress to deliver our sustainability strategy for Barclays UK. We have continued to enhance our suite of
sustainability-related products and propositions to support Barclays UK customers to make more sustainable choices. We are focused on
driving performance of these products and propositions via customer insights, targeted marketing, and enhanced sustainability skill sets
within Consumer and Business Banking teams, integrating much of the day-to-day operations of sustainability within the business.
However, we also recognise dependency on external factors, such as public policy and supply chain readiness, to drive customer demand.
We remain committed to supporting our customers to transition to net zero and growing our sustainable finance business in the UK,
aligned with Barclays’ three-year plan to grow its UK market.
In Barclays UK, we have grown our Sustainability Champions community, bringing together colleagues to share best practice regarding
sustainability across the business and access specialist training. We launched a Sustainability Influencer program, with selected colleagues
championing sustainability within their teams, to further embed sustainability in Barclays UK. In 2024 we also delivered a Barclays UK
specific training module to over 16,000 colleagues, delivered bespoke senior leader training, delivered role-specific training to colleagues in
Business Banking, and launched our inaugural Sustainability Apprenticeships cohort in 2024, made up of colleagues from across Barclays
UK who are obtaining a level 4 course with an external provider which aims to educate people to understand and develop ways to support
the transition to a low-carbon economy.
Consumer Bank
Sustainability Hub
Barclays UK continues to engage consumers through our online Consumer Sustainability Hub, which provides information on our financial
products, services, informative content and partner offers that may support them in making more sustainable choices. In 2025, we will
launch our in-app Sustainability Hub for current account customers, in order to drive greater engagement and visibility of our products,
services and partner offers, to better support our active mobile app customers.
Greener Homes
An important driver to decarbonise the UK Housing sector is improved energy efficiency of the housing stock. We support our retail
mortgage customers to retrofit their properties and reduce their energy consumption by providing financial products, services, and partner
offers.
We continue to support customers purchasing EPC A- and B-rated new-build homes with our Green Home Mortgage, launched in 2018
and expanded to buy-to-let in 2022. Our Green Home Mortgage continues to perform strongly, with £1.1bn lent to Green Home Mortgage
customers in 2024. Since inception, Barclays UK has lent over £4.7bn to Green Home Mortgage customers.
We also continue to support eligible residential mortgage customers to install eligible energy-efficiency-related measures in their homes,
offering a cash reward of up to £2,000 via our Greener Home Reward offer. In 2024 we simplified the registration process and will expand
the scheme to include MCS accredited installers in 2025. Microgeneration continues to be the most popular installation since launch, with
63% of reward payments for solar panels and solar battery storage, followed by low carbon heating at 20%.
In 2024, we piloted our Greener Home Loan, offering a cashback of up to £250 for eligible current account customers who take out a loan
and use the money for energy-efficiency home improvements. We continue to monitor take-up and retrofit type, with solar being the most
popular installation with 62% of claims.
Partnerships Offers
We continue to develop our partnership offers to support customers home energy efficiency measures. This includes our offer of 50% off
the purchase of a Home Health Check for eligible residential mortgage customers in collaboration with British Gas, and our offer of a 6-
month free trial of the Hugo Pro for eligible residential mortgage customers in collaboration with Hugo Energy to provide insights into
home energy usage. We also offer a free to use home energy tool through Energy Saving Trust, which supports residential mortgage
customers to understand how energy efficient their homes are and improvements they could make.
Business Bank
Embedding sustainability across the Business Bank
We continue to evolve our colleague training around sustainability, to better support our Business Bank clients. In 2024, 94% of our
Relationship Managers completed sustainability related training, including modules on EPC ratings and green assets that are in scope of
our green lending offering. In addition, our Net Zero Specialists team, established in 2023, continue to support clients to explore the steps
they can take to support their decarbonisation journey.
SMEs
Business Bank is supporting SMEs to invest in low carbon technologies as they transition to net zero. Our Green Loans for Business offer
discounted interest rates when customers finance eligible green assets. In 2024, we expanded our Green Loans for Business with several
additional eligible loan products; namely, our Green Commercial Mortgage, Green Buy-to-Let Mortgage, SIPP & SSAS Green Property
Loans, and Green Agricultural Mortgage. We have also updated our Eligible Green Asset Guide, which lists over 65 eligible green assets for
our Green Loans for Business, to improve client access to our green financing options. In 2024 we continued to offer Green Asset Finance
via our partner Propel.

[PAGE 20]

Climate and Sustainability report
Common barriers to SMEs transitioning are the perceived cost of change and time to develop required action plans. SMEs will often start by
making changes directly within their control. Recognising this, in 2024, we launched a pilot with SaveMoneyCutCarbon to help clients
explore energy, water and carbon saving opportunities, with the aim of helping them transition to net zero in a cost-effective manner.
External engagement
We recognise the opportunity to support the transition to net zero for SMEs via external engagement with policy makers and industry
bodies. In 2024, Barclays became a co-chair of the Willow Review, an independent Government-backed review aiming to underline the
financial benefits of sustainability for small businesses across the UK. We also became a member of Perseus, which aims to allow individual
businesses to securely share their consumption data to create sustainability reports with personalised recommendations. We remain a
member of the UK Business Climate Hub advisory board, through which we were a partner in the UK Net Zero Business census released in
September 2024.
Climate Tech
We set-up the Barclays Climate Tech Escalator in 2024, a connected pathway dedicated to growing climate tech companies. The Climate
Tech Escalator supports scaling by providing tailored, dedicated support as the companies grow and helps them to harness the power of
capital markets. We established a Technology & Creatives vertical in our Business Bank, which provides financial services to early-stage
climate tech companies. Through Eagle Labs we support these companies with mentorship, webinars, workshops, and provide programs
such as the Carbon13 Venture Launchpad and UK Government funded Sustainability Bridge to help them scale.
We recognise the funding challenge inhibiting the success of growth-stage climate tech companies, particularly those at the Series B+
investment stage. In 2024, Barclays published a paper on the role of UK public finance to bridge the financing gap for growth-stage climate
tech companies, as well as the common challenges they face. In 2025 we will explore new products which can help address these financing
gaps.
Agriculture
In 2024, we launched a Green Agricultural Mortgage to support UK farming clients to undertake more sustainable practices and implement
energy-efficiency improvements. We continue to engage with farmers to explore the challenges and opportunities that may emerge from
the decarbonisation of the Agricultural sector. In 2024 we undertook two surveys of our UK farming clients to better understand the
challenges they face in progressing towards net zero, and published a policy position paper on the opportunity of biodiversity net gain
(BNG).
In October 2024, Barclays launched a first of its kind collaboration with the Environment Bank. This collaboration aims to help Barclays’ UK
farming clients in England understand opportunities in the Biodiversity Net Gain (BNG) market. It also aims to help Barclays UK Corporate
Bank clients, including UK-based housebuilders that are seeking to fulfil their BNG scheme obligations, to explore opportunities and their
options in the biodiversity credits market. Recognising Barclays’ market presence in the Agriculture and Housing sectors, this collaboration
supports clients across Barclays UK and UK Corporate Bank to explore new revenue opportunities emerging from the transition to a low-
carbon economy.
Barclays Eagle Labs
Barclays Eagle Labs look to help incubate, inspire and educate UK founders, start-ups and scale-ups to help them succeed and grow
through virtual support and a network of 42 physical sites across the UK. In 2024 Eagle Labs has expanded into nine new locations and has
supported over 4,439 businesses through propositions, programmes, and businesses engaged with our network. Eagle Labs also launched
an online learning platform to help support founders with the knowledge and skills needed to launch and grow a tech business as part of
the Digital Growth Grant activity funded by UK Government. In 2024 Eagle Labs opened applications for 22 growth programmes including
the Black Founders Accelerator programme designed to champion inclusion in entrepreneurship and showcase Black Founder-led
businesses.
Cambridge Eagle Lab was relaunched in October 2023 as a dedicated centre for scale-ups and start-ups who are leading in climate
innovation. Since the relaunch the Cambridge Eagle Lab has focussed on growing the community and now has 19 climate focussed
businesses residing out of the lab including Carbon 13 and Sustainable Ventures.
Carbon 13 Venture Launchpad
The Carbon 13 Venture Launchpad in partnership with Barclays Eagle Labs supports early stage start-ups to launch high-potential, global
impact climate tech ventures. This climate tech accelerator helps supports early-stage founding teams to work intensively on their carbon
impact, investment readiness and go-to-market strategy.
Sustainable Ventures partnership
Eagle Labs ongoing work in the climate tech ecosystem has led to a partnership with Sustainable Ventures at their flagship site in London,
where it has a dedicated Ecosystem Manager providing their members with access to Eagle Labs. In parallel, Sustainable Ventures has
joined Cambridge Eagle Lab to add value to Eagle Lab members.

[PAGE 21]

Climate and Sustainability report
Information provided in climate and sustainability disclosures/Disclaimers
What is important to our investors and stakeholders evolves over time, and we aim to anticipate and respond to these changes. Disclosure
expectations in relation to climate change and sustainability matters are particularly fast moving, and differ from more traditional areas of
reporting including in relation to the level of detail and forward-looking nature of the information involved and the consideration of impacts
on the environment and other persons. We have adapted our approach in relation to the disclosure of such matters. Our climate and
sustainability disclosures take into account the wider context relevant to these topics, which may include evolving stakeholder views, the
development of our climate strategy, longer timeframes for assessing potential risks and impacts, international long-term climate- and
nature-based policy goals and evolving sustainability-related policy frameworks. Our climate and sustainability disclosures are subject to
more uncertainty than disclosures relating to other subjects given market challenges in relation to data reliability, consistency and
timeliness – the use of estimates, judgements and assumptions which are likely to change over time- the application and development of
data, models, scenarios and methodologies, the change in regulatory landscape, and variations in reporting standards.
These factors mean disclosures may be amended, updated, and recalculated in future as market practice and data quality and availability
develops, and could cause actual achievements, results, performance or other future events or conditions to differ, in some cases
materially, from those stated, implied and/or reflected in any forward-looking statements or metrics included in our climate and
sustainability disclosures. We give no assurance as to the likelihood of the achievement or reasonableness of any projections, estimates,
forecasts, targets, commitments, ambitions, prospects or returns contained in our climate and sustainability disclosures and make no
commitment to revise or update any such disclosures to reflect events or circumstances occurring or existing after the date of such
statements.
• Made certain key judgements, estimations and assumptions. This is, for example, the case in relation to financed emissions, portfolio
alignment, classification of environmental and social financing, operational emissions and sustainability metrics, measurement of
climate risk and scenario analysis.
• Used climate and sustainability data, models, scenarios and methodologies Barclays consider to be appropriate and suitable for these
purposes as at the date on which they were deployed. This includes data, models, scenarios and methodologies made available by third
parties (over which we have no control) and which may have been prepared using a range of different methodologies, or where the
basis of preparation may not be known to Barclays. Methodologies, interpretations or assumptions may not be capable of being
independently verified and may therefore be inaccurate. Climate and sustainability data, models, scenarios and methodologies are
subject to future risks and uncertainties and may change over time. Climate and sustainability disclosures in this document, including
climate and sustainability-related data, models and methodologies, are not of the same standard as those available in the context of
other financial information and use a greater number and level of judgements, assumptions and estimates, including with respect to
the classification of climate and sustainable financing activities. Climate and sustainability disclosures are also not subject to the same
or equivalent disclosure standards, historical reference points, benchmarks or globally accepted accounting principles. Historical data
cannot be relied on as a strong indicator of future trajectories in the case of climate change and its evolution. Outputs of models,
processed data, scenario analysis and the application of methodologies will also be affected by underlying data quality, which can be
hard to assess, or challenges in accessing data on a timely basis.
• Continued (and will continue) to review and develop Barclays approach to data, models, scenarios and methodologies in line with
market principles and standards as this subject area matures. The data, models, scenarios and methodologies used (including those
made available by third parties) and the judgements, estimates and/or assumptions made in them or by us are rapidly evolving, and
this may directly or indirectly affect the metrics, data points, targets, convergence points and milestones contained in the climate and
accounting and/or reporting standards, improvements in data quality, data availability, or updates to methodologies and models and/
or updates or restatements of data by third parties, could impact – potentially materially – the performance metrics, data points,
reports we may present some or all of the information for this reporting period (including information made available by third parties)
using updated or more granular data or improved models, scenarios methodologies, market practices or standards. Equally, we may
need to re-baseline, restate, revise, recalculate or recalibrate performance against targets, convergence points or milestones on the
disclosed may not always be possible from one reporting period to another.
There are a variety of internal and external factors which may impact Barclays’ reported metrics and progress against targets, convergence
points and milestones.

[PAGE 22]

Governance
Contents
Governance Page
▪ Governance Report (including Corporate Governance Statement) 22
▪ Directors’ Report 32
▪ Other Governance - Managing data privacy, security and resilience 35

[PAGE 23]

Governance
Governance Report, including Corporate Governance Statement
The Board
The Directors who served during the year ended 31 December 2024 are set out in the table below, together with details of the composition
of each of the Board Committees.
Board Board Audit Board Board Board Risk
Committee Nominations Remuneration Committee
Committee Committee
Current Directors (all of whom served up to the date of signing this report)
Sir John Kingman
C C
Chair of the Board
Andrew Ratcliffe
M C M M
Deputy Chair of the Board and Independent Non-Executive Director
Vanessa Bailey
M M M C
Independent Non-Executive Director
Tracy Corrigan
M M
Independent Non-Executive Director
Avid Larizadeh Duggan OBE
M M
Independent Non-Executive Director
Michael Jary CBE
M M C M
Independent Non-Executive Director
John Liver
M M M
Independent Non-Executive Director
Chris Pilling
M M M
Independent Non-Executive Director
Bernadette Wightman
M
Independent Non-Executive Director
Vim Maru (appointed 20 February 2024) M
Chief Executive
Claire Peel
M
Chief Financial Officer
Former Directors
Matt Hammerstein (resigned 20 February 2024) M
Chief Executive
C: Chair of Board or Board Committee.
M: Member of Board or Board Committee.
Charter of Expectations
Executive and Non-Executive Directors share the same statutory duties and are subject to the same constraints. The expectations of each
Director, including the behaviours and competencies required for each role, are set out in the Company’s Charter of Expectations.
Time commitment
The Company’s Charter of Expectations also sets out the time commitment for each role. Non-Executive Directors, including the Chair, are
informed of the minimum time commitment required prior to their appointment; they must, on appointment and on an ongoing basis, be
able to devote sufficient time to the Company to effectively discharge their responsibilities. A Non-Executive Director’s preparation for, and
attendance at, Board and Board Committee meetings is only part of their role. In addition, Non-Executive Directors are expected to provide
effective oversight and scrutiny, strategic guidance and constructive challenge whilst holding the Executive Directors to account against
their agreed performance objectives.
The Directors’ time commitments are considered by the Board on appointment and are reviewed annually. Before taking on any new
external appointment, such appointment must be agreed with the Chair and disclosed to the Board, with an indication of the time involved.
During the year, the Board kept under review the number of external directorships held by each Director and considered the limits on the
number of directorships imposed by relevant regulations. The Board is satisfied that there are no Directors whose time commitment is
considered to be a matter for concern.
Training and development
All new Directors are provided with a comprehensive induction, which is structured around the core components of the Barclays Bank UK
Group’s strategy and tailored to their specific experience and knowledge.
In order to enable the Directors to discharge their responsibilities and to undertake their roles with due care, the Directors participate in an
ongoing programme of briefing sessions, deep dives, and training and development throughout the year. The focus of this programme is
key areas of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s strategy through the lenses of customer, community, colleague, control and company as well as
law and regulation (for example: Consumer Duty, customer experience, financial crime, growth initiatives, technology, and the Senior
Managers Regime). The topics are, where possible, brought to life through interactive sessions with customers and colleagues. This
provides the Directors with a more granular understanding of the Barclays Bank UK Group and the business which, in turn, contributes to
informed and sound decision-making.

[PAGE 24]

Governance
Governance Report, including Corporate Governance Statement
Our corporate governance principles and how we applied them in 2024
During the year ended 31 December 2024, and up to and including the date of this report, the Company has continued to apply and has
complied with its own corporate governance arrangements rather than the UK Corporate Governance Code or the Wates Corporate
Governance Principles for Large Private Companies. This is on the basis that the Board continues to believe that the Company’s own
governance arrangements are the most appropriate for it as a wholly owned subsidiary of a listed company which is also a complex
financial institution subject to a comprehensive regulatory regime. This approach is consistent with the approach of other significant
subsidiaries in the Barclays Group which are subject to the Companies (Miscellaneous Reporting) Regulations 2018 (2018 Regs).
• are effective, in particular to ensure the safety, independence and soundness of the ring-fenced bank
• provide checks and balances and encourage constructive challenge
• drive informed, collaborative and accountable decision-making
• create long-term sustainable value for our shareholder, Barclays, the ultimate shareholders of Barclays and our wider
stakeholders
Set out below is an explanation of how the six principles that underpin the Company’s corporate governance arrangements have been
applied during 2024.
The Barclays Bank UK Group governance framework is set by Barclays and has been designed to facilitate the effective management of the
Barclays Group. This includes the setting of Barclays Group policies in relation to matters such as the Barclays Group’s Purpose, Values and
Mindset and the Barclays Group Remuneration Policy. Where appropriate, this Corporate Governance Statement makes reference to those
Barclays Group-wide policies which are relevant to the way in which the Company is governed.
Principle One: Board Leadership and Company Purpose
A successful company is led by an effective and entrepreneurial Board whose role is to establish the company’s purpose, values and
strategy, aligned to its culture, and make decisions to promote its success for the long-term benefit of its shareholder, having regard
to the interests of other relevant stakeholders and factors.
The Board is collectively responsible for the overall leadership of the Company. This involves articulating a clear vision for the Company and
establishing a strategy for both the Company and the Barclays Bank UK Group, supported by a framework of effective controls that are
designed to mitigate financial and other risks and to protect the reputation of the business.
The Board’s role also involves ensuring that the Company is managed in accordance with the ring-fencing legislation, that the necessary
resources are in place to enable the Company to meet its objectives, and measuring performance against those objectives.
Principal activities of the Board in 2024
Strategic and operational matters
▪ Overseeing the shaping of and providing input into the Barclays Bank UK Group elements of the Barclays Group’s three-year plan to
create a “Simpler, Better and More Balanced Bank”, as announced in February 2024, including the focus areas (in respect of which
further detail can be found in the “Performance review” section of the Strategic Report) and related financial targets
▪ In monitoring and overseeing execution of the Barclays Bank UK Group strategy during 2024, receiving enhanced reporting on
customer experience and growth initiatives in business banking, secured lending, and unsecured lending and - in July 2024 -
participating in a “strategy day” with Executive Committee members to retest the strategy and review early progress against the focus
areas
▪ Receiving updates on the evolving geopolitical, macroeconomic and operational environment and overseeing the Barclays Bank UK
Group’s ongoing support of customers, clients and colleagues through those lenses
▪ Considering and, in turn, overseeing Barclays UK’s technology strategy, including – in conjunction with the Board Risk Committee – the
challenges and opportunities that technology presents for banking products and services (for example, AI and cybersecurity)
• Overseeing customer, commercial, conduct, financial, operational, people, regulatory, risk, societal, sustainability and technology
matters, with regular updates from the Chief Executive and Executive Committee members on these key aspects of the business,
supported by key performance indicators and other metrics (where considered appropriate)
• Overseeing reputational risk matters, including in relation to protest activity from activists
▪ Overseeing, in conjunction with the Board Audit Committee and the Board Risk Committee, the acquisition of Tesco Bank, which
completed in November 2024, and the entry into a long-term, exclusive partnership with Tesco Stores Limited for an initial period of 10
years
▪ Overseeing, in conjunction with the Board Risk Committee, the launch of a co-branded credit card with Amazon
▪ Overseeing the continued embedment of the Consumer Duty and, in that context, approving the first Annual Consumer Duty Board
Report, considering planning and readiness for the second implementation deadline of 31 July 2024 for closed products and services,
enhancing fair value assessments in accordance with FCA insights, and monitoring customer outcomes via the quarterly Customer
Outcomes Report
▪ Receiving updates on developments in UK banking (for example, the October 2024 Court of Appeal judgments on commission
arrangements in the motor finance industry) and the evolving legal, political and regulatory landscape (including but not limited to the
draft statutory instrument amending the ring-fencing regime)

[PAGE 25]

Governance
Governance Report, including Corporate Governance Statement
Culture, colleagues and inclusion
▪ Continuing to oversee the embedment of Consistently Excellent and monitoring delivery against that higher operating standard
▪ Overseeing colleague engagement. Further details can be found in the “Our colleagues” section of the Strategic Report and, separately,
▪ Reviewing, in conjunction with the Board Nominations Committee, the Board’s progress against the ambitions set out in the Board
Diversity and Inclusion Policy and the Company’s progress against its ambition to build an inclusive, diverse and equitable culture
where all colleagues can thrive. Further information can be found in the “Our colleagues” section of the Strategic Report and,
Finance
▪ Reviewing and approving the Barclays Bank UK Group’s Medium Term Plan (MTP), in which strategy is embedded, together with
related funding and capital plans for the Barclays Bank UK Group
▪ Overseeing the financial performance of the Barclays Bank UK Group and its main businesses through regular reports from the Chief
Financial Officer
▪ On the recommendation of the Board Audit Committee, approving the Barclays Bank UK Group’s full year and half year financial
statements, and approving the payment of a 2023 full year dividend and the payment of a 2024 half year dividend
▪ Overseeing, in conjunction with the Board Risk Committee, the results of a range of stress tests to assess capital adequacy and
resilience under severe but plausible macroeconomic scenarios
Risk, control and regulatory matters
▪ On the recommendation of the Board Risk Committee, approving the adoption of the revised Enterprise Risk Management Framework
(ERMF) following its annual refresh, approving the Company’s qualitative and quantitative Risk Appetite Statements, and overseeing
risk parameters
▪ On the recommendation of the Board Risk Committee, approving the Barclays Bank UK Group elements of the Barclays Group Recovery
and Resolution Plan and Resolvability Assessment Framework and the conclusions of the annual assessment of ring-fencing
compliance
▪ Overseeing key risk matters, including themes and emerging risks, through regular updates from the Chair of the Board Risk
to better understand the Group risk context)
▪ Overseeing, in conjunction with the Board Audit Committee and the Board Risk Committee, financial crime activity that impacted the
Barclays Bank UK Group in 2024, the elevation of financial crime risk to a Principal Risk and the execution of remediation activities,
including but not limited to enhancements to the Barclays Bank UK Group’s control environment
▪ Overseeing, in conjunction with the Board Audit Committee, the effectiveness of the Barclays Bank UK Group control environment
underpinning depositor protection pursuant to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme
▪ Overseeing, with the support of the Board Audit Committee, the Barclays Bank UK Group’s internal controls framework through regular
reports from the Chief Controls Officer
▪ Overseeing the Barclays Bank UK Group’s operational and technology capacity, including - in conjunction with the Board Risk
Committee - the annual self-assessment of operational resilience. The recent severe systems incident impacting the business is a
reminder of the need for continued focus in the management of operational risk
▪ Overseeing, in conjunction with the Board Audit Committee and the Board Risk Committee, the services received from BX through -
amongst other reports - an annual update from the BX Chief Executive
Governance
▪ Approving the Barclays Group Statement on Modern Slavery
▪ Overseeing, with the support of the Board Nominations Committee, the Chief Executive succession process, which culminated in
February 2024 with the appointment of Vim Maru as an Executive Director and Chief Executive
▪ Overseeing Directors’ time commitments and the management of any Non-Executive Director conflicts of interest
▪ Overseeing, in conjunction with the Board Nominations Committee, the 2024 external Board, Board Committee and Non-Executive
Director evaluations and monitoring the Board’s progress against recommendations arising
▪ Receiving regular updates from the Chairs of the Board Committees on matters discussed at meetings and from Tracy Corrigan on
matters discussed at Barclays Board Sustainability Committee meetings (in her capacity as the Board’s representative on that
Committee)
▪ Receiving updates on the performance of the Company’s material subsidiaries, Barclays Insurance Services Company Limited and
Kensington Mortgage Company Limited, and - in the case of Kensington Mortgage Company Limited - on integration into the Barclays
Bank UK Group
▪ Reviewing the Board’s role in relation to the oversight of material investments in technology initiatives and execution of technology
programmes
Principle Two: Division of Responsibilities
An effective Board requires a clear division of responsibilities with the Chair leading the Board and being responsible for its overall
effectiveness, and the executive leadership of the company’s business being delegated to the Chief Executive. The Board should
consist of an appropriate combination of executive and independent Non-Executive Directors each with a clear understanding of
their accountability and responsibilities. The Board’s policies and procedures should support effective decision-making and
independent challenge.
Chair responsibilities
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chair and the Chief Executive. The Chair is responsible for leading the Board and its
overall effectiveness, demonstrating objective judgement and promoting a culture of openness and constructive debate between all
Directors. The Chair also facilitates constructive Board relations and the effective contribution of all Non-Executive Directors, and ensures

[PAGE 26]

Governance
Governance Report, including Corporate Governance Statement
Directors receive accurate, clear and timely information. In addition, the Deputy Chair is available, if needed, to deputise for and support the
Chair in respect of the authorities and responsibilities conferred on or delegated to him by the Board from time to time.
The duties of the Board are executed in part through the Board Committees, which provide oversight and make recommendations on the
matters delegated to them by the Board. The Chair of each Board Committee provides a report on Board Committee business at each Board
meeting, including any matters being recommended to the Board for approval. Details on the principal Board Committees and their core
responsibilities and activities in 2024 are set out in Principles Three to Five on pages 25 to 30.
Chief Executive responsibilities
Responsibility for the day-to-day management of the Company is delegated to the Chief Executive who is supported by the Company’s
Executive Committee, which meets weekly. The Executive Committee supports the Chief Executive in ensuring that the Company’s values,
strategy and culture align, are implemented and are communicated consistently to colleagues; for example, through townhalls, skip-level
meetings, site visits, leader-led sessions, focus groups and surveys. Further details are set out in the “Our colleagues” section of the
Strategic Report.
Accountability
Accountability is driven through routine evaluations of the Board and Board Committees. For an overview of the recent external evaluation
of the Board, Board Committees and Non-Executive Directors (including the Chair), please see page 26.
Decision-making and independent challenge
The Board maintains a formal schedule of powers reserved to it in order to ensure that it has control over key decision-making. These
powers include approval of key appointments, strategy, financial statements and any major acquisitions, mergers or disposals; the Board
also has the power to approve material non-financial matters impacting the Barclays Bank UK Group including, but not limited to, matters
involving material conduct risk and/or reputation risk considerations as well as significant customer remediation matters and strategic
business changes.
There are also policies and procedures in place to support effective decision-making and independent challenge, including the Barclays
Group Corporate Governance Operating Manual, which sets out how Barclays Group entities and their respective Boards and Board
Committees should interact and, where appropriate, escalate issues.
For details of how the Directors have had regard to the matters set out in Section 172(1) of the Act when performing their duty to promote
the success of the Company under Section 172, and the effect of those considerations in reaching certain decisions taken by them, please
refer to the Section 172(1) Statement on pages 15 to 16 of the Strategic Report.
In accordance with the Act and the Company’s Articles of Association, the Board has authority to authorise conflicts of interest, and this
ensures that the influence of third parties does not compromise or override the independent judgement of the Board. The Company
Secretary maintains a conflicts register, which is a record of actual and potential conflicts, together with any Board authorisation of the
conflict. Throughout the year, the Board has authorised a number of potential conflicts and, on occasion, put in place appropriate
procedures to manage that potential conflict. Following authorisation, all conflicts - whether actual or potential - are monitored in order to
assist the relevant individuals in discharging their duties as a Director.
Principle Three: Composition, Succession and Evaluation
A Board with the right balance of skills, experience and diversity is critical to the sustainable delivery of value to the company’s
shareholder and broader stakeholders. The size of the Board should be guided by the scale and complexity of the company and
appointments should be based on merit and objective criteria and with a view to promoting diversity and subject to a formal, rigorous
and transparent procedure which is underpinned by an effective succession plan for the Board and senior management. A successful
Board is a cohesive Board that provides informed and constructive challenge to the management team and measures its
effectiveness.
Board composition and succession
On 20 February 2024, aligned with Barclays’ announcement of the resegmentation of its operating structure into five divisions, Vim Maru
was appointed as an Executive Director and Chief Executive. Matt Hammerstein stepped down from the Board as an Executive Director and
Chief Executive on the same day and was appointed as Chief Executive of the Barclays Group’s UK Corporate Bank operating division. The
Board thanks Matt for his hard work, service and significant contribution to the Barclays Bank UK Group.
The Board Nominations Committee led the Chief Executive succession process, which culminated in the Committee recommending to the
Board that it appoint Vim. Vim has over 20 years’ experience in the financial services sector - specifically, in retail banking - and was
previously Barclays Global Head of Consumer Banking and Payments and, prior to that, Group Director for Retail at Lloyds Banking Group.
The Board approved Vim’s appointment in February 2024, subject to regulatory approval (which was subsequently given.)
The Directors have assessed the composition and size of the Board and have confirmed that they consider both to be appropriate for a
large UK retail bank. This assessment is supported by a skills matrix (refreshed annually), which helps the Directors to evaluate the
experience and skills on the Board in order to ensure that there is the necessary expertise and knowledge to support and challenge
management in its execution of the strategy. There is currently a good balance between the Executive Directors and independent Non-
Executive Directors who, together, have a strong combination of financial, retail banking, risk and technical skills as well as experience in
colleague engagement, customer experience, culture, financial regulation, government, technology and transformation.

[PAGE 27]

Governance
Governance Report, including Corporate Governance Statement
Succession planning will remain an area of focus in 2025 and beyond in order to ensure that there is the appropriate breadth and depth of
talent on the Board. The Board Nominations Committee will - on behalf of the Board - continue to review the succession plans for key
Board positions, including Chair of the Board Audit Committee (on the basis that Andrew Ratcliffe’s third term on the Board will come to an
end in early 2026). To the extent that any appointment to the Board is made, such appointment will be based on merit. Objective criteria
are used to ensure that the Board has the necessary experience, knowledge and skills to be effective in the execution of the strategy whilst
recognising the importance of diversity amongst the Directors including, but not limited to, diversity of experience, gender, ethnicity,
geography and thought.
The Board has achieved its gender diversity ambition - as set out in the Board Diversity and Inclusion Policy - to ensure that, by 2025, the
proportion of women on the Board is at least 40% (female representation on the Board is currently 45%) and at least one of the following
senior Board positions is held by a woman: Chair, Chief Executive, or Chief Financial Officer. We are also pleased to report that the Board
has achieved its ethnic diversity ambition to ensure that at least one Board member is from a minority ethnic background (excluding white
ethnic groups) and that, having been met, this is maintained. The gender and ethnic diversity ambitions align to the targets adopted by
Barclays (which reflect the requirements of the UK Listing Rules) and, in both cases, the ambitions were achieved with due regard to a fair
and balanced recruitment process.
With regards to independence, the majority of the Board is considered to be independent. Independence is reviewed annually, using the
independence criteria set out in the ring-fencing requirements, and the Chair meets privately with the Non-Executive Directors, where
appropriate, in order to promote the required independence.
Board evaluation
During November and December 2024, an external evaluation of the Board, Board Committees and Non-Executive Directors (including the
Chair) was facilitated by Christopher Saul Associates (CSA), an independent, external corporate governance advisory firm with no
connection to the Barclays Bank UK Group or any individual Director other than as disclosed within the report of the Board Nominations
members to obtain feedback on the effectiveness of the Board throughout 2024, and also attended Board and Board Committee meetings.
CSA presented its final report to the Board on the findings of the evaluation in February 2025. The overall conclusion of the evaluation was
that the Board is operating effectively and that the Board Committees are well integrated into overall Board processes. The Board has a
collegiate and constructive culture, is well led, operates at a high standard, and benefits from quality support. However, certain areas were
identified for continued focus. These include ensuring that - during 2025 - sufficient time is dedicated to key transformational topics that
are relevant to the long-term vision for the Barclays Bank UK Group and that there is an ongoing focus on medium-term Board and
Executive Committee succession planning as well as the simplification and timely circulation of Board papers. Work is underway to
progress these matters.
The evaluations of the Board Committees and Non-Executive Directors (including the Chair) concluded that they are meeting their required
responsibilities and operated effectively during 2024.
Board Nominations Committee
The Board Nominations Committee comprises independent Non-Executive Directors (see page 22).
Meetings are attended by the Chief Executive and the Human Resources Director, at the invitation of the Committee Chair.
The principal role and responsibilities of the Committee are set out in its terms of reference and include:
▪ Skills and Diversity - evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity for the Board and Board Committees and
more broadly across the senior management of the business
▪ Director Appointments - identifying, and recommending to the Board, candidates for appointment to the Board and Board Committees
▪ Director Independence - considering and assessing the independence of the Non-Executive Directors, including recommendations for
any steps to manage actual or potential conflicts of interest
▪ Board Performance - assessing the performance of the Non-Executive Directors and their annual time requirements
▪ Board Evaluation - considering actions from the Board and Board Committee evaluation process and, in conjunction with the Board,
reviewing the Board’s progress against the recommendations arising from the evaluation process
• Board Development - leading the development and effective implementation of policies and procedures for the induction, training and
professional development of all members of the Board
• Talent - overseeing the adoption of internal policies and talent progression for senior management
During 2024, the principal activities of the Committee were:
• Reviewing the Board’s composition, including the skills and experience of Board members and the independence of the Non-Executive
Directors (excluding the Chair)
▪ Leading, on behalf of the Board, the Chief Executive succession process, which culminated in February 2024 with the Committee
recommending to the Board that it appoint Vim Maru as an Executive Director and Chief Executive
▪ Leading, on behalf of the Board, the process to appoint Andrew Ratcliffe’s successor as Chair of the Board Audit Committee
▪ Overseeing, on behalf of the Board, the process to identify Chris Pilling’s successor as Consumer Duty Champion (which culminated in
the Board appointing John Liver into the role on 1 September 2024)
▪ Reviewing and monitoring, on behalf of the Board, the Board’s progress against the ambitions set out in the Board Diversity and
Inclusion Policy and the Company’s progress against its ambition to build an inclusive, diverse and equitable culture where all
colleagues can thrive. Further information can be found in the “Our colleagues” section of the Strategic Report and, separately, in the

[PAGE 28]

Governance
Governance Report, including Corporate Governance Statement
▪ Reviewing the Company’s talent and succession plans at Executive Committee level and one level down on a bi-annual basis and, when
required, overseeing Executive Committee appointments
▪ Reviewing the Committee’s effectiveness
▪ Reviewing the results of the 2023 internal Board, Board Committee and Non-Executive Director evaluations, the overall conclusion of
which was that the Board, Board Committees and the Non-Executive Directors all operated effectively during 2023 (as reported in the
The Executive Committee
The Board and Board Nominations Committee regularly review the leadership and succession needs of the business, which helps the
Directors to understand the breadth and depth of talent at Executive Committee level and one level down. Talent amongst these
populations has, once again, been an area of focus during 2024 - Executive Committee members continued to present spotlights on the
senior talent within their teams, and the Non-Executive Directors met with Managing Director and Director colleagues to hear their views
on challenges and opportunities within the business.
The Board remains comfortable that the Executive Committee has the capabilities and experience required to support the execution of the
strategy against the backdrop of a competitive operating environment, with the changes made during the year serving to strengthen the
Executive Committee’s skill set. Talent and succession at both Executive Committee level and one level down will remain a key focus for
2025 and beyond.
Principle Four: Audit, Risk and Internal Control
The Board should establish formal and transparent policies and procedures to: (i) identify the nature and extent of principal risks the
company is willing to take in order to achieve its long-term strategic objectives; (ii) manage such risks effectively; (iii) oversee the
internal control framework; (iv) promote the independence and effectiveness of internal and external audit functions; and (v) satisfy
itself on the integrity of financial reporting.
The Company is committed to operating within a strong system of internal controls that enable business to be transacted and risk taken
without exposure to unacceptable potential losses or reputational damage. The Principal Risks facing the Barclays Bank UK Group have
been identified and robust processes are in place to evaluate and manage such risks including regular reporting to, and oversight by, the
Board Risk Committee and the Board. A key component of the risk management framework is the ERMF, which supports the business in its
aim to embed effective risk management and a strong risk management culture. The ERMF is designed to identify and set minimum
requirements, in respect of the main risks, to achieve the Barclays Bank UK Group’s strategic objectives and to provide reasonable
assurance that internal controls are effective. Further detail on the Principal Risks and management of them can be found in the “Managing
risk” section of the Strategic Report.
The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that management maintains an effective system of risk management and internal controls
and for assessing its effectiveness. Such a system is designed to identify, evaluate and manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to
achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. However,
the effectiveness of the risk management and internal controls system is also reviewed regularly by the Board Risk Committee and the
Board Audit Committee. Details of the role, responsibilities and activities of both Committees are set out below.
The Board receives regular reports on risk matters, including reputational risk matters, in order to ensure sufficient focus around strategic
and emerging risks, including those arising from within the broader Barclays Group, which may impact the Barclays Bank UK Group.
Board Audit Committee
The Board Audit Committee comprises independent Non-Executive Directors (see page 22).
At the invitation of the Committee Chair, meetings are attended by management and others, including the Chief Executive, Chief Financial
Officer, Chief Internal Auditor, Chief Risk Officer, Chief Compliance Officer, Chief Controls Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Financial
Controller, General Counsel, the Company’s statutory auditor and, at their request, Non-Executive Directors who are not members of the
Committee who wish to further their knowledge and understanding of audit matters. The Board, together with the Board Audit Committee,
is responsible for ensuring the integrity of the financial statements and the independence and effectiveness of the internal audit function
and the statutory auditor. The Committee Chair meets regularly with both the Chief Internal Auditor and the Senior Statutory Auditor
throughout the year and Committee members meet with each of them separately without management present at least annually.
The Committee is responsible for overseeing financial reporting processes, reviewing the effectiveness of internal controls, considering
whistleblowing arrangements and overseeing the work of the internal auditor and the statutory auditor. Throughout the year ended
31 December 2024 and to date, a comprehensive internal controls framework has been in place within the Barclays Bank UK Group that
provides reasonable assurance of effective operations covering all controls, including financial and operational controls and compliance
with laws and regulations. The Committee receives a quarterly report on the framework’s operation (and its continued enhancements).
This includes reports from the internal audit function, the statutory auditor and the Chief Controls Officer, as well as related plans and
management actions to remediate control recommendations raised in those reports.
The principal role and responsibilities of the Committee are set out in its terms of reference and include:
▪ Financial Reporting - assessing the integrity of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s financial statements and examining any significant
reporting issues and judgements made
▪ Internal Controls - examining the operation and effectiveness of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s system of internal controls
▪ Internal Audit - monitoring and examining the operation, effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the internal audit function

[PAGE 29]

Governance
Governance Report, including Corporate Governance Statement
▪ Regulatory Reporting - reviewing arrangements established by management for compliance with regulatory and financial reporting,
including compliance with the ring-fencing requirements
▪ External Audit - reviewing and monitoring the statutory auditor’s independence, objectivity and effectiveness, including oversight of the
regulatory developments within the delivery of audit services
▪ Whistleblowing - reviewing the integrity, independence and effectiveness of Barclays Bank UK Group’s well-established policies and
procedures on whistleblowing
▪ Material Legal Matters - overseeing significant contentious and non-contentious matters, together with current or emerging legal risks
In discharging its responsibilities, the Committee is to have regard to the interests of Barclays Bank UK Group’s stakeholders and shall
(where appropriate) consider whether the Company and the Barclays Bank UK Group as a whole are delivering good customer outcomes.
During 2024, the principal activities of the Committee were:
▪ Ahead of the Barclays Group’s announcement in February 2024 of its three-year plan to create a “Simpler, Better and More Balanced
Bank”, overseeing the financial aspects of the Barclays Bank UK Group elements of that strategy, including the financial targets
▪ Reviewing the Barclays Bank UK Group’s full year and half year financial statements and recommending to the Board that it approve the
same
▪ Reviewing the Barclays Bank UK Group’s Q1 and Q3 2024 results for incorporation into Barclays PLC’s Q1 and Q3 2024 results
▪ Assessing the appropriateness of key management judgements, including consideration of material conduct and litigation provisions
(including collections and recoveries, and other material items) and accounting policy judgements (including expected credit losses,
impairment and recoverability of goodwill)
▪ Considering accounting matters in relation to the acquisition of Tesco Bank, including the fair value of assets and liabilities acquired
▪ Overseeing financial crime activity that impacted the Barclays Bank UK Group in 2024 and the execution of related remediation
activities, including but not limited to enhancements to the Barclays Bank UK Group’s control environment (for example, through risk
reduction plans)
▪ Overseeing the Company’s Money Laundering Reporting Officer’s report, regulatory correspondence and related work
▪ Receiving reports from the General Counsel on litigation matters pertinent to accounting provisions, including in relation to the October
2024 Court of Appeal judgments on commission arrangements in the motor finance industry
▪ Receiving reports from the Chief Controls Officer regarding the internal controls framework, its effectiveness and future requirements,
as well as conducting timely reviews of internal audits graded “Needs Improvement” for both control environment and Management
Control Approach, including the response from management
▪ Ensuring appropriate oversight of the BX control environment where it impacts the Barclays Bank UK Group’s control environment and
- post-acquisition - overseeing the control environment in relation to Tesco Bank
▪ Overseeing the statutory auditor’s independence and objectivity and contributing to the Barclays Group’s auditor effectiveness exercise
▪ Overseeing the performance of the internal audit function and approving the 2025 audit plan
▪ Receiving reports from management on certain areas of the business where reports from the internal audit function had recommended
improvements to existing controls (for example, relating to change management and programme governance, and control practices,
regarding oversight of large-scale technology programmes) or on areas of new risk (for example, in relation to new product offerings)
▪ Monitoring management progress on the embedding of a Risk Control Self-Assessment framework
▪ Reviewing and re-adopting the refreshed Barclays Group policy on the provision of non-audit services by the statutory auditor
▪ Monitoring the whistleblowing programme, including receiving regular whistleblowing metrics as they relate to the Barclays Bank UK
Group, and ensuring that the procedures for protection from detrimental treatment of staff who raise concerns continue to be effective
▪ Receiving the Company’s Data Protection Officer’s report
▪ Reviewing the Committee’s effectiveness
Board Risk Committee
The Board Risk Committee comprises independent Non-Executive Directors (see page 22).
At the invitation of the Committee Chair, meetings are attended by management, including the Chief Executive, Chief Risk Officer, Chief
Compliance Officer, Chief Financial Officer, General Counsel, Chief Internal Auditor, the Company’s statutory auditor, the Company’s
Treasurer and, at their request, Non-Executive Directors who are not members of the Committee who wish to further their knowledge and
understanding of risk matters.
The Committee is responsible for providing oversight and advice to the Board in relation to current and potential future risk exposures,
examining reports covering the Principal Risks including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or
liquidity, as well as reports on risk measurement methodologies and risk appetite.
The principal role and responsibilities of the Committee are set out in its terms of reference and include:
▪ Risk Appetite and Risk Profile – reviewing and ensuring that the risks undertaken by the business are within the risk appetite of the
Company, as set by the Board
▪ Risk Limits – reviewing and adopting risk limits and mandates for financial and non-financial risk, monitoring the risk profile and
receiving and considering reports on key risk issues (including emerging risks)
▪ Regulatory – reviewing and monitoring the Company’s capital and liquidity position including considering both the existing and
forecasted Company risk profile and the potential impact of stress
▪ Internal Control and Risk Control – monitoring the internal control and risk control framework
▪ Credit Risk – reviewing credit risk performance (including concentration of credit risk and expected credit losses)
▪ Compliance Risk – reviewing the effectiveness of the management of compliance risk, seeking to ensure fair customer outcomes
following the implementation of policies and reviewing the effectiveness of the Compliance Risk Management Framework, as it applies
to the Company and its subsidiaries

[PAGE 30]

Governance
Governance Report, including Corporate Governance Statement
▪ Climate Risk – considering matters including the impact on financial and operational risks arising from climate change through physical
risks, risks associated with transitioning to a lower carbon economy and connected risks
▪ Risk Culture – monitoring to ensure a robust risk culture (relating to risk awareness, risk taking and risk management)
▪ Ring-fencing – reviewing the ring-fencing requirements (including attestation and ongoing compliance requirements)
In discharging its responsibilities, the Committee is to have regard to the interests of Barclays Bank UK Group’s stakeholders and shall
(where appropriate) consider whether the Company and the Barclays Bank UK Group as a whole are delivering good customer outcomes.
During 2024, the principal activities of the Committee were:
▪ Overseeing the first and second line of defence elements of the risks and controls associated with the execution of the Barclays Bank
UK Group’s strategy
▪ Recommending to the Board that it adopt the revised ERMF following its annual refresh and approve the qualitative and quantitative
Risk Appetite Statements
▪ Reviewing and adopting the relevant Barclays Group policies, including the Compliance Risk Management Framework
▪ Receiving and reviewing regular financial and non-financial risk reporting on each of the Principal Risks (detailed in the “Managing risk”
section of the Strategic Report), and reviewing emerging risks
▪ Reviewing the first and second line of defence reports on the risks associated with the acquisition of Tesco Bank, the entry into a long-
term, exclusive partnership with Tesco Stores Limited for an initial period of 10 years and, separately, the launch of a co-branded credit
card with Amazon
▪ Monitoring the risks associated with the evolving geopolitical and macroeconomic environment, including but not limited to receiving
updates on operational risk, credit risk (specifically in Business Banking) and market risk exposures (to the extent applicable) as well as
a regular focused update on the UK housing and mortgage market and its effect on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s mortgage portfolio
▪ Reviewing compliance risk, with a focus on enhanced reporting in relation to financial crime risks (in light of the heightened financial
crime environment, influenced by external factors such as cyber threats), and - in turn - overseeing the elevation of financial crime to a
Principal Risk
▪ Adopting the 2024 Limits and Mandates and monitoring the risk profile in accordance with the same
▪ Monitoring compliance with key portfolio metrics, including the use of Chief Risk Officer discretion
▪ Overseeing risk resources and the independence of the Risk and Compliance functions
▪ Reviewing and recommending to the Board that it approve the Barclays Bank UK Group elements of the 2024 Barclays Group Recovery
Plan and the 2024 Barclays Group Resolvability Self-Assessment Report
▪ Reviewing and challenging the effectiveness of risk management and internal controls systems, including those risks identified by the
findings of internal audits
▪ Monitoring capital and liquidity levels and approving the Company sections of the Barclays Group 2024 Internal Capital Adequacy
Assessment Process and Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process
▪ Reviewing and approving the Barclays Bank UK Group’s stress testing scenarios and results
▪ Monitoring the risks associated with the continued embedment of the Consumer Duty and, in that context, ensuring readiness for the
second implementation deadline of 31 July 2024 for closed products and services (with a particular focus on customer understanding
and fair value assessments)
▪ Overseeing the challenges and opportunities that technology presents for banking products and services through regular reporting on
operations and technology
▪ Considering regular reports on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s operational resilience (including benchmarking analysis on its maturity)
and recommending to the Board that it approve the annual 2024 self-assessment. Monitoring readiness - ahead of the March 2025
regulatory deadline - to demonstrate the Barclays Bank UK Group’s ability to recover its important business services in severe but
plausible service disruption scenarios within specified impact tolerances
▪ Approving material new and amended product approvals, where considered necessary due to risk profile, with a particular focus on
ensuring good customer outcomes (for example, the Blue Rewards proposition changes)
▪ Reviewing the Barclays Bank UK Group’s ring-fencing compliance
▪ Reviewing the Committee’s effectiveness
Principle Five: Remuneration
The remuneration policies and practices should support strategy and promote long-term sustainable success, and be developed in
accordance with formal and transparent procedures, ensuring no Director is involved in deciding their own remuneration outcome.
Executive remuneration should be aligned to the company’s purpose and values and the successful delivery of the strategy; with
outcomes taking account of company and individual performance, and wider circumstances such as pay across the company’s workforce
and Barclays’ Fair Pay agenda.
The Barclays Group Remuneration Policy is set by the Barclays Board Remuneration Committee, and reviewed and adopted by the
Company’s independent Board Remuneration Committee. The policy ensures that remuneration is aligned to the Barclays Bank UK Group’s
strategy and risk management approach and is designed to promote the long-term success of the Barclays Bank UK Group.
Remuneration for executives and senior management is considered in the context of the wider workforce remuneration and alignment of
incentives and rewards with performance and culture. Their remuneration is reviewed annually by the Board Remuneration Committee and
the Barclays Board Remuneration Committee, as appropriate. No individual is involved in deciding their own remuneration.
The Barclays Bank UK Group is committed to paying colleagues fairly, with regards to their specific role, seniority, responsibilities, skills and
experience and other factors which properly affect pay, in a way that balances the needs of all the Barclays Bank UK Group’s stakeholders.
You can find more information on Barclays’ Fair Pay agenda, which underpins all our remuneration decisions, in the Barclays Fair Pay
Report 2024. The Barclays Bank UK Group also remains focused on closing its gender and ethnicity representation gaps where they exist,
and the pay gaps that result, by increasing the representation of females and employees from underrepresented minority groups at more
senior levels. You can find more information in the Barclays Group’s UK Pay Gaps 2024 disclosure.

[PAGE 31]

Governance
Governance Report, including Corporate Governance Statement
Board Remuneration Committee
The Committee comprises independent Non-Executive Directors (see page 22).
At the invitation of the Committee Chair, meetings are attended by management, including the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer,
Chief Risk Officer, Human Resources Director and Reward Director. The Barclays Group Human Resources Director and Barclays Group
Reward and Performance Director also attend the Committee when requested to provide relevant updates.
The principal role and responsibilities of the Committee are set out in its terms of reference and include:
• Remuneration Policy – setting the over-arching principles and parameters of remuneration policy for the Barclays Bank UK Group,
within the parameters set by the Barclays Board Remuneration Committee
• Incentive Pay – considering and endorsing the incentive pool for the Company and its subsidiaries and the remuneration of key BBUK
executives and other specified individuals as determined by the Committee from time to time
• Approach to Remuneration – exercising oversight of remuneration issues within the Barclays Bank UK Group and matters that more
generally concern people and culture within the Barclays Bank UK Group
During 2024, the principal activities of the Committee were:
▪ Overseeing reward and recognition across the Barclays Bank UK Group’s workforce to ensure alignment with the desired culture and
behaviours
▪ Reviewing and adopting the Barclays Group Remuneration Control Framework and the Barclays Group People Risk Reward Policy, in
each case for application within the Barclays Bank UK Group
▪ Reviewing and adopting the methodology and framework for 2024 incentive funding, and reviewing and endorsing the resulting
incentive pool, including considering financial performance and risk updates (and the appropriateness of risk adjustments to
incentives)
▪ Reviewing and approving, where appropriate, the remuneration of the Company’s Executive Directors and other senior employees of
the Barclays Bank UK Group
▪ Considering the appropriate bonus cap to set for the Barclays Bank UK Group Material Risk Takers and adopting a formal cap of 10:1,
effective from performance-year 2024
▪ Receiving updates on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s remuneration initiatives and developments, including Barclays’ Fair Pay agenda and
gender and ethnicity pay gaps
▪ Considering regular updates on legal, regulatory and stakeholder matters (including the remuneration aspects of the acquisition of
Tesco Bank), and pay round considerations
▪ Reviewing the Committee’s effectiveness
The Committee also participated in a briefing session led by a third party adviser on trends in consumer retail banking and the wider
stakeholder environment.
Principle Six: Stakeholder Relationships and Engagement
Directors should foster effective stakeholder relationships aligned to the company’s purpose. The Board should recognise the importance
of listening to, and understanding the views of its stakeholders, including the workforce, and specifically the impact of the company’s
behaviour and business on customers and clients, colleagues, suppliers, communities and society more broadly, having regard to these
views and impact when taking decisions.
Throughout the year, the Board engages directly and indirectly (through regular reports from the Chief Executive and Executive Committee
members) with its stakeholders to ensure it has a comprehensive understanding of the impact of the Barclays Bank UK Group's operations
on those stakeholders, as well as their interests and views.
Customers and clients
Customers and clients continue to be at the heart of the decisions we make. The Board is committed to ensuring good customer outcomes
and that the Consumer Duty is demonstrably embedded throughout the organisation.
In 2024, the Board engaged with customers and clients in a wide variety of ways, including: hearing from founders from across the climate
technology escalator on moving from seed to scale as part of the Board’s two-day offsite meeting at the Cambridge Eagle Lab (in respect of
which, see “Communities and society” below); hearing from key business introducers as to why they work with Barclays UK; monitoring
customer outcomes via Consumer Duty reporting and the quarterly Customer Outcomes Report; and - whilst at Barclays UK’s Customer
Experience Centre in Sunderland - observing colleague calls with customers and clients and, separately, observing colleagues who were
interacting via the “Chat” feature in the Barclays App. This engagement provided first-hand insight into customers’ and clients’ needs, and
how Barclays UK is serving them. Where appropriate, reporting to the Board was supplemented by the results of customer and client
research (for example, in relation to customer segmentation).
Colleagues
Details of our colleague engagement model can be found in the “Our colleagues” section of the Strategic Report and, separately, in the
respect, there has been a combination of townhalls, skip-level meetings, site visits, leader-led sessions, focus groups and surveys.
In 2024, direct engagement between the Board and colleagues included the Directors: having regular meetings with senior management;
participating in colleague events (such as the Exceptional Achievement Awards); providing mentoring; and visiting branches (including but
not limited to branches impacted by protest activity), Eagle Labs, and operational and strategic sites across the UK. The Board participated

[PAGE 32]

Governance
Governance Report, including Corporate Governance Statement
in a two-day offsite meeting held across a number of locations in the North East, including the Newcastle Eagle Lab and the Customer
Experience Centre in Sunderland. The themes of the offsite were “Customer Care” and “Customer Service”, which the Board explored
through a colleague lunch to recognise individuals for making Barclays UK simpler, better and more balanced and through different
“breakout sessions” with colleagues (including - as mentioned above - observing colleague calls with customers and clients and,
separately, observing colleagues who were interacting via the “Chat” feature in the Barclays App). The Non-Executive Directors also met
with two cohorts of Managing Director and Director colleagues during the year, which allowed them to hear a broad range of colleague
opinions on challenges and opportunities within the bank.
The Board receives feedback from colleagues on a variety of topics via the bi-annual Your View surveys, which - together with the
aforementioned direct engagement, both inside and outside of the boardroom - enables the Board to take colleagues’ views into account
when making decisions likely to affect their interests.
Suppliers
For information on our engagement with suppliers, please see page 33 of the Directors’ Report.
Communities and society
The Board has continued to engage with both the Barclays Group and management in relation to the Barclays Group’s climate strategy and
how the Barclays Bank UK Group can play its part in supporting the transition to a low-carbon economy. Tracy Corrigan’s role as the
Board’s representative on the Barclays Board Sustainability Committee has also enabled her to provide the Board with critical insight into
the Barclays Board’s oversight of climate and sustainability matters and to represent the retail bank in that forum.
With the climate strategy in mind, the Board participated in a two-day offsite meeting at the Cambridge Eagle Lab, which was relaunched in
October 2023 as a dedicated centre for scale-ups and start-ups who are leading in climate innovation. The Board heard about how the site
had been retrofitted and the Lab’s partnership with Carbon 13. The Board also met with founders from across the climate technology
escalator, who provided insight on their experiences of moving from seed to scale.
For more information on our role in society, please refer to the Society section of the Strategic Report and the Climate and Sustainability
Report.
Shareholder
Finally, the Board is committed - in accordance with each Director’s duty under Section 172(1) of the Act - to promoting the success of the
Company thereby creating and delivering long-term, sustainable value for its sole shareholder, Barclays. This was one of the key
considerations when the Board was overseeing the shaping of and providing input into the Barclays Bank UK Group elements of the
Barclay’s Group’s strategy.
The Board regards engagement with the Company’s sole shareholder as being crucial to its ongoing understanding of the Barclays Group’s
expectations and priorities. With that in mind, and akin to previous years, the Board was pleased to welcome both the Barclays Group
Chairman and the Group Chief Executive to meetings in 2024 - as well as certain Barclays’ Executive Committee members - in order to
discuss Barclays Group matters and for those individuals to gain a better understanding of the opportunities and risks of the retail bank.
The Chair’s position on the Barclays Board also ensures the views of the Barclays Bank UK Group are represented at the Barclays Group
level. The Directors believe that this engagement model works well and intend to use it again in 2025, supported by any informal
engagement opportunities that may arise during the course of the year.
For more information about the Barclays Bank UK Group’s key stakeholders, how management and/or the Directors engaged with them,
the key issues raised and actions taken, please refer to the Section 172(1) Statement on pages 15 to 16 of the Strategic Report.

[PAGE 33]

Governance
Directors’ Report
The Directors present their report together with the audited accounts for the Company for the year ended 31 December 2024.
to 16.
The Company has addressed the Non-Financial Reporting requirements contained in sections 414CA and 414CB of the Act through the
the Company has chosen, in accordance with section 414C(11) of the Act and as noted in this Directors’ Report, to include certain matters
in its Strategic Report that would otherwise be disclosed in this Directors’ Report:
• an indication of likely future developments can be found in the Strategic Report
• the particulars of important events affecting the Company since 31 December 2024 can be found in the Strategic Report and
Note 24 (Legal, competition and regulatory matters) to the financial statements
Other information that is relevant to the Directors’ Report, and which is incorporated by reference into this report, can be located at:
Page(s)
Performance measures 5 to 6
Managing risk, including Principal Risks 7 to 9
Society 13 to 14
Climate and Sustainability Report 17 to 20
Governance Report 22 to 31
Disclosures required pursuant to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports)
Regulations 2008 (2008 Regs) as updated by the 2018 Regs can be found on the following pages:
Engagement with employees (Sch.7 Para 11 and 11A 2008/2018 Regs) 12
Financial Instruments (Sch.7 Para 6 2008 Regs) 197 to 213
Hedge accounting policy (Sch.7 Para 6 2008 Regs) 198
Profits and dividends
The results of the Barclays Bank UK Group show statutory profit after tax of £2,620m (2023: £1,922m). The Barclays Bank UK Group had
net assets of £18,585m at 31 December 2024 (2023: £16,861m).
The Company will pay a £825m dividend to its parent, Barclays PLC. Further details on dividends on ordinary shares paid in 2024 are set
out in Note 10 to the financial statements.
Share capital
There was no increase in ordinary share capital during the year. Barclays PLC owns 100% of the issued ordinary shares. There are no
restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares or agreements between holders of ordinary shares known to the Company, which may result
in restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares or voting rights. Further information on the Company’s share capital can be found in Note
26 to the financial statements.
Powers of Directors to issue or buy back the Company’s shares
The powers of the Directors are determined by the Act and the Company’s Articles of Association. No shares were repurchased in 2024.
Directors
The list of current Directors of the Company can be found in the Governance Report on page 22. Changes to Directors during the year and
up to the date of signing this report are set out below.
Name Role Effective date of appointment / resignation
Matt Hammerstein Chief Executive Resigned 20 February 2024
Vim Maru Chief Executive Appointed 20 February 2024
Directors’ indemnities
‘Qualifying third party indemnity’ provisions (as defined by section 234 of the Act) were in force during the course of the financial year
ended 31 December 2024 for the benefit of the then Directors of the Company and the then Directors of certain of the Company's
subsidiaries and, at the date of this report, are in force for the benefit of the Directors of the Company and the Directors of certain of the
Company's subsidiaries in relation to certain losses and liabilities which they may incur (or have incurred) in connection with their duties,
powers or office. The Barclays Group also maintains Directors’ and Officers’ Liability Insurance which gives appropriate cover for legal
action brought against the Company’s Directors.

[PAGE 34]

Governance
Directors’ Report
Political donations
The Barclays Bank UK Group did not give any money for political purposes in the UK, or outside the UK, nor did it make any political
donations to political parties or other political organisations, or to any independent election candidates, or incur any political expenditure
during the year. Details of any political contributions made by the wider Barclays Group can be found in the Directors Report in the Barclays
Support for candidates and colleagues with disabilities and long-term conditions
Barclays’ commitment to inclusion means we want to ensure that candidates with disabilities and long-term health conditions receive
support and adjustments in the application process and beyond. Barclays welcomes applications from all candidates and is committed to
ensuring reasonable adjustments (accommodations) are put in place to ensure a fair and inclusive candidate experience. Barclays is
committed to providing all colleagues with the support and tools they need to have a productive and fulfilling career. We can consider
making adjustments to remove or reduce barriers colleagues might face if they have a disability, health concern or mental health condition.
We also ensure opportunities for training, career development and promotion are available to all.
Engagement with customers, suppliers and others in a business relationship with the Company
Barclays must effectively manage, monitor and mitigate risks in our supply chain. The Directors, via management, have regard to the need
to foster business relationships with suppliers. We expect our Third Party Service Providers (TPSP) to make responsible decisions that,
where relevant, take our stakeholders’ needs into account in both the short and the long term. Barclays expects the TPSPs to comply with
applicable laws, regulations and standards within the geographies in which they operate. Barclays’ standard approach to new TPSP on-
boarding and renewal begins by assessing the services that are being provided and ascertaining the level of risk. TPSPs that are assessed as
being above a low risk of exposure from a business risk perspective (at the point of onboarding and on an ongoing basis) are subject to
Barclays’ Supplier Control Obligations (SCOs). TPSPs to whom the SCOs apply become managed TPSPs and are subject to ongoing
management and controls assurance during the term of service. Prior to contractual agreement and service go live, these TPSPs are
required to complete a pre-contractual questionnaire which captures their adherence to the SCOs and Barclays’ TPSP Code of Conduct
(TPSP CoC). The TPSP CoC encourages our TPSPs to adopt our approach to doing business and details our expectations for matters
including environmental management, and human rights, and also for living the Barclays Values.
Barclays works closely with the Small Business Commissioner and other organisations, including Good Business Pays, to raise awareness to
the public and larger businesses on late payments and the impact these can have on businesses and business owners.
For more information on our engagement with customers and clients, please refer to the “Customers and clients” section of the Strategic
Branches and Country-by-Country Reporting
The Barclays Bank UK Group operates through branches, offices and subsidiaries in the UK.
The Company is exempt from publishing information required by The Capital Requirements (Country-by-Country Reporting) Regulations
2013 as the information is published by its parent, Barclays PLC. The information is due to be published on or around 13 February 2025 and
will be available at home.barclays/annualreport.
Research and development
In the ordinary course of business, the Barclays Bank UK Group develops new products and services in each of its business divisions.
Statutory auditor
The Barclays Board Audit Committee reviews the appointment of the Barclays Group statutory auditor, as well as their relationship with the
Barclays Group, including monitoring the Barclays Group’s use of the statutory auditors for non-audit services and the balance of audit and
non-audit fees paid to them. The Company’s Board Audit Committee also monitors the use of the statutory auditors for non-audit services
within the Barclays Bank UK Group.
In December 2024, Barclays announced its intention to conduct a formal tender process for the role of statutory auditor for the Barclays
Group (including the Company) with effect from the 2027 financial year onwards. After recommendation by the Board Audit Committee
and upon the request of the Barclays Board, the Board approved the commencement of the formal tender process for the statutory auditor.
The audit tender process will be overseen by the Barclays Board Audit Committee (with support from the Board Audit Committee) and is
expected to conclude in June 2025. An announcement will be made by Barclays following the selection of the preferred firm by the Barclays
Board. For more information on the audit tender process, please refer to the report of the Barclays Board Audit Committee in the Barclays
Disclosure of information to the auditor
Each Director confirms that, so far as he/she is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditor is unaware
and that each of the Directors has taken all the steps that he/she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself/herself aware of any
relevant audit information and to establish that the Company's auditor is aware of that information. This confirmation is given pursuant to
section 418 of the Act and should be interpreted in accordance with and subject to those provisions.
Directors’ responsibilities
The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the auditor’s report set out on pages 160 to 169, is made with a view to
distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the Directors and of the auditor in relation to the financial statements.

[PAGE 35]

Governance
Directors’ Report
Going concern
In preparing the Barclays Bank UK Group’s financial statements, the Directors are required to:
▪ assess the Barclays Bank UK Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern;
and
▪ use the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Barclays Bank UK Group or to cease operations, or
have no realistic alternative but to do so.
The Barclays Bank UK Group’s business activities, financial position, capital, factors likely to affect its future development and performance
and its objectives and policies in managing the financial risks to which it is exposed are discussed in the Strategic Report and Risk
Management sections.
The Directors have evaluated these risks in the preparation of the financial statements and consider it appropriate to prepare the financial
statements on a going concern basis.
Preparation of accounts
The Directors are required by the Act to prepare the Company and the Barclays Bank UK Group accounts for each financial year and, with
regard to Barclays Bank UK Group accounts, in accordance with UK-adopted international accounting standards. The Directors have
prepared these accounts in accordance with (a) UK-adopted international accounting standards; and (b) International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRS) as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), including interpretations issued by the IFRS
Interpretations Committee. Pursuant to the Act, the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true
and fair view of the state of affairs of the Barclays Bank UK Group and the Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
The Directors consider that, in preparing the financial statements on pages 170 to 243, the Barclays Bank UK Group and Company have
used appropriate accounting policies, supported by reasonable judgements and estimates, and that all accounting standards which they
consider to be applicable have been followed.
Company’s sole shareholder to assess the Barclays Bank UK Group and Company’s position and performance, business model and strategy.
The Directors are responsible for such internal controls as they determine necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Directors’ responsibility statement
The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company and the Barclays Bank UK Group keep accounting records which disclose
with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Company and the Barclays Bank UK Group and which enable them to ensure that the
financial statements comply with the Act.
The Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors’ Report and Corporate Governance Statement in accordance
with applicable law and regulations.
Company’s website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in
other jurisdictions.
The Directors have a general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Company
and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The current Directors, whose names and functions are set out on page 22, confirm to the best of their knowledge that:
(a) the financial statements, prepared in accordance with (a) UK-adopted international accounting standards; and (b) IFRS as issued by the
IASB, including interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial
position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole; and
(b) the management report, which is represented by the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report, includes a fair review of the
development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation
taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
By order of the Board
Katie Marshall
Company Secretary
12 February 2025
Barclays Bank UK PLC
Registered in England. Company No. 9740322
Registered office: 1 Churchill Place, London E14 5HP

[PAGE 36]

Governance
Other Governance
Managing data privacy, security and resilience
We have strict policies to protect privacy and keep data secure.
Data privacy
Most of the jurisdictions in which Barclays operates have privacy and data protection laws in effect. While these may vary in detail,
generally they reflect internationally recognised privacy principles found in the UN’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the European
Convention on Human Rights and the European Union’s Charter of Fundamental Rights.
We strive to operate in accordance with these standards and recognise that respect for privacy rights is a key element of good corporate
governance and social responsibility. We strive to be transparent about our use of personal information when delivering our products and
services and acknowledge the responsibility we have for safeguarding privacy.
As Barclays increasingly adopts digital solutions to deliver next-generation consumer financial services, we appreciate our clients,
customers and others may wish to understand how this may impact the use of their personal information. A globally applicable Barclays
Data Privacy Standard sets out what is expected of all Barclays businesses and functions when collecting, using and sharing personal
information.
To promote clear accountability, the Standard includes the requirement for each business to appoint an accountable executive who has
ultimate responsibility for the processing of personal data within that business. An agreed assurance programme measures compliance
with the Data Privacy Standard. Barclays colleagues must complete annual privacy training which is reviewed and refreshed each year, with
additional tailored training provided as necessary. The Group Data Protection Officer (DPO) reports on data privacy issues to the highest
level of management.
Through client, customer and employee privacy notices, we endeavour to explain clearly and openly how and why we use personal
information and the legal grounds we rely on. When we receive complaints, we seek to address them fairly. Several jurisdictions also
provide individuals with specific rights, such as the right to have access to or request deletion of their personal information.
Barclays provides a public mailbox and secure channels via its website to enable individuals to make their privacy requests and receive
responses from a dedicated team.
Barclays requires its suppliers to comply with data protection and privacy laws, regulations and standards relevant to the jurisdictions in
which they operate and relevant to any transferred personal data. Our requirements are set out and principally managed through our
supplier contract templates, which require that suppliers commit to ensuring personal data shared with them is safeguarded and respected
throughout the supply chain.
Data security
As detailed below, Barclays' Chief Security Office and Chief Information Security Office operate controls aimed at mitigating cybersecurity-
related risks and understanding internal and external threats.
Barclays deploys controls designed to protect its sensitive information and the data that has been entrusted to us by customers and clients,
in line with our Standards, taking into account findings from internal and external reviews of our controls.
Barclays seeks to protect the security of data we share with third parties, including by conducting remote and on-site inspections with
certain suppliers to review their controls against contractual obligations and industry standards. A Third Party Service Provider Framework
is in place which sets out control requirements for business units to manage the operational, reputational, conduct and legal risks to
Barclays through its supply chain.
In operating under a hybrid working model, we have continued to educate colleagues on cybersecurity risks in order to help minimise risks
related to remote working, such as data exploitation or leakage.
Barclays works with industry bodies and cybersecurity vendors to learn from risk events in other organisations. Our teams use such
intelligence to simulate plausible cybersecurity and data compromise scenarios that allow us to exercise, review and improve our response
and recovery plans in preparation for evolving threats.
Operational resilience
Customers and clients have increased expectations for us to be ‘Always On’. The interconnectivity of the financial sector means the stability
and resilience of our systems, workforce and the continued provision of third party services, all have a direct impact on the quality of our
service.
Resilience and security is a focus for the Board. Barclays continues to strengthen its resilience posture and is focused on its ability to
recover from a range of ‘severe but plausible’ scenarios which could cause detriment to its customers and clients and the broader financial
market. To enable this, we define Groupwide business services and their interdependencies across the Group, including technology, third
party services and our workforce. Recovery plans and business response plans have been developed for a range of different disruption
events, such as cyber or data integrity disruptions, or technology failures. These recovery plans are reviewed and validated through regular

[PAGE 37]

Governance
Other Governance
testing which supports our aim to reduce the volume and impact of operational incidents year on year. We also conduct regular assurance
on third parties to assess their capability.
Operational resilience is delivered through an established and robust Operational Resilience Framework underpinned by a Policy,
Standards, methodologies and procedures. These are integrated with the ERMF and set the tone from the top. The Standards are
embedded within the Barclays Controls Framework and provide a consistent approach across the firm.
The Operational Recovery Planning Policy and Standards drive the identification of the business services that are most important to
Barclays, its customers, clients and the markets in which Barclays operates. The Standards also define requirements for setting recovery
targets, mapping of dependencies, planning and testing.
Resilience and security is the responsibility of everyone within the Group. All permanent employees are required to complete annual
mandatory training on these topics.
Chief Security Office and Chief Information Security Office
Barclays' Chief Security Office and Chief Information Security Office exist to keep the bank, its customers, clients, and colleagues safe and
secure, and to support the resilience of our operations. They support Barclays' ability to operate in a protected and secure environment, and
actively promote a culture of security as everyone's responsibility.
The Group Chief Security Officer and Group Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) head Barclays' Chief Security Office and Chief
Information Security Office, respectively. Group Chief Security Office is responsible for physical security, threat intelligence, crisis
management, and investigations and liaising with law enforcement, among other areas. Barclays' Group Chief Security Officer combines 10
years of law enforcement experience with over 20 years of experience in senior leadership roles managing security at global financial
institutions, and is supported by a leadership team with expertise in threat intelligence, investigations, security transformation, and crisis
management, as well as other teams of subject matter experts and analysts.
In 2024, Barclays’ Group CISO was elevated to report directly to the Group Chief Information Officer (a member of the Group Executive
Committee), to leverage the strategic and operational benefits of aligning cybersecurity and technology. The Group Chief Information
Officer reports to the Chief Operating Officer, and also sits on the Group Executive Committee. Barclays’ Group CISO is responsible for
assessing and managing Barclays’ material risks from cybersecurity threats. The Group CISO is responsible for areas that, among others,
include cybersecurity operations; internal penetration testing; third party security management; cryptography; vulnerability management;
governance, risk, and compliance; cyber threat intelligence; and identity access management. The Group CISO has more than 20 years of
experience managing cybersecurity for global financial institutions, including responsibility for cybersecurity fusion centres, cyber
intelligence, security engineering and architecture, security operations, and network services. The Group CISO is supported by a team of
CISOs for individual business units and jurisdictions. Chief Information Security Office leaders manage Barclays’ cybersecurity activities and
are accountable for the day-to-day monitoring of residual risk, identification of gaps, oversight of remedial actions and implementation of
strategy. The Group CISO and supporting leadership team collectively have advanced degrees and senior level experience managing
cybersecurity risks in a variety of sectors, including those that represent critical national infrastructure, such as telecommunications and
financial institutions. They are supported by teams of subject matter experts and analysts in a variety of specialisations, such as penetration
testing, cyber-forensic investigations, security engineering, and vulnerability management.
Supporting the delivery of Barclays’ cyber and information security strategy are multiple management committees, forums, and councils,
including Cyber Control Councils for each of the eleven Standards supporting the Group Information and Cybersecurity Policy. These Cyber
Control Standards Councils feed into the Cybersecurity Horizontal Controls Forum, the Group Controls Committee, the Group Risk
Committee, and ultimately the Board Risk Committee. In addition, the Group COO holds standalone business reviews that include
management updates on the status of cybersecurity across the Group, and a standalone COO Controls Forum that also escalates to the
Group Controls Committee. Barclays’ Operational Risk and internal audit functions provide independent views of cyber risk management
from second and third line of defence perspectives.
Barclays assesses its cybersecurity activities against the industry-recognised National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST)
Cybersecurity Framework. Under Barclays' Enterprise Risk Management Framework, there is an Information and Cyber Security Policy
supported by eleven Standards which define the minimum requirements for cybersecurity matters across the Barclays Group. The Policy
leverages key risk indicators defined in the Standards to integrate cybersecurity risk management into the Group’s Enterprise Risk
Management Framework. The Standards cover the following topics: Cryptography, Network Security, Security Configuration, Data Loss
Prevention, Vulnerability Management, Data Security, Incident Response & Threat Intelligence, Threat Management, Governance, Identity &
Access Management, and Application Security. The Group CISO approves and is accountable for the Information and Cyber Security Policy
and associated Standards. As part of our programme, we periodically assess our performance against these Standards and identify areas
for improvement and remediation.
The Board Risk Committee, within its oversight of Operational Risk as a Principal Risk, is responsible for overseeing risks arising from
cybersecurity threats. In 2024, the Group Chief Security Officer and Group CISO provided updates to the Board Risk Committee about
cybersecurity risks facing the Group. Such updates addressed topics that included the cybersecurity threat environment and ransomware
attack preparedness, measurement of Barclays' risk and control posture, cybersecurity incident trends and Barclays' response, plans to
improve Barclays' ability to recover from a material cyberattack scenario, Barclays’ vulnerability management, privileged access to Barclays'
systems, regulatory developments, and risks and opportunities related to emerging technology and artificial intelligence.
Engaging external security consultants to conduct penetration tests, attack simulations and other reviews to independently benchmark
Barclays’ cybersecurity capabilities is an important part of our cybersecurity programme that allows us to identify and remediate

[PAGE 38]

Governance
Other Governance
cybersecurity weaknesses. In 2024, Barclays’ Group CISO and Group Chief Information Officer briefed the Barclays Board Risk Committee
on plans to address the findings of penetration testing and cybersecurity assessments and remediate identified weaknesses.
Barclays also partners with third party security providers on certain activities such as cyber recovery, software vulnerability scanning,
penetration testing, distributed denial of service (DDoS) attack prevention, phishing simulations, third party risk management, incident
response, intelligence, fraud prevention, and industry benchmarking.
An important part of Barclays’ cybersecurity environment is its Joint Operations Centres (JOCs), which operate 24x7x365 from three
globally strategic locations, linking Barclays’ security professionals and incident response managers with control functions and business
unit representatives. The JOCs deliver security responsiveness by uniting core security functions and providing a central information and
coordination point for security incident management and escalation, based on defined severity levels. During live incidents, the Barclays
Crisis Management Team monitors the response by Incident Management Teams, Resilience Leads, and others, and has discretion to
invoke one or more Barclays Crisis Leadership Teams (CLTs). CLTs are business-led teams at entity, business unit, and regional levels that
provide strategic leadership in a crisis, maintain incident management oversight, and coordinate key decision making.
To manage security risk from Barclays’ third party suppliers, many of which perform critical services for Barclays businesses and handle
sensitive Barclays data, we have a set of contractual Information and Cyber Security Supplier Control Obligations that are based on
requirements in our internal Standards. Using our dedicated Third Party Security Management team’s capabilities, as well as third party
tooling, we conduct assurance over our third and fourth parties against those obligations. Activity is structured on a risk-based approach
that prioritises suppliers that underpin our most important business services. Identified issues are managed formally, but we also engage
proactively with third party suppliers to help them strengthen their security and resilience posture. To recognise the risk presented by third
party suppliers, which are increasingly targeted by threat actors, we regularly alert third party suppliers where we anticipate that they may
be more vulnerable and should take preventative action.
Notwithstanding such third party risk management efforts, Barclays does not have direct control over the cybersecurity of the systems of
its third and fourth parties, limiting the Group’s ability to effectively protect and defend against certain threats.
Certifications
Barclays holds three ISO27001 certifications (i.e., the international standard on how to manage information security), Cyber Essentials /
Cyber Essentials Plus Certification, and a UK certification for Digital Banking.
Training
Barclays requires colleagues to complete mandatory information security training at least annually. Topics covered include incident
reporting procedures, protecting sensitive data, device security, data leakage prevention, social engineering awareness, and password
management. Consequences of noncompletion may include disciplinary action and impact to compensation.
Barclays performs a number of key activities related to identifying, investigating, responding to and containing phishing, including an
operational process that provides education and awareness through phishing simulation exercises, and management interventions for
employees who demonstrate susceptibility to phishing lures. To report suspected phishing to Barclays' JOCs for further investigation,
colleagues have a reporting tool integrated into their email account and receive feedback on whether the reported email was suspect or
genuine. Barclays uses metrics to continually refine its phishing education and training.

[PAGE 39]

Risk review
Contents
The management of risk is a critical underpinning to the execution of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s strategy. The material risks and
uncertainties the Barclays Bank UK Group faces across its business and portfolios are key areas of management focus.
Risk management strategy Page
Overview of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s approach to risk ▪ Enterprise Risk Management Framework (ERMF) 41
management.
▪ Segregation of duties – the “Three Lines of Defence” 41
model
▪ Principal risks 41
▪ Risk appetite 42
▪ Risk committees 43
▪ The Barclays Bank UK Group’s risk culture 44
Material existing and emerging risks
Insight into the level of risk across our business and portfolios, the ▪ Material existing and emerging risks potentially impacting 45
material existing and emerging risks and uncertainties we face and more than one principal risk
the key areas of management focus.
▪ Material existing and emerging risks impacting individual 49
principal risks
▪ Climate risk 49
▪ Credit risk 50
▪ Treasury and capital risk 51
▪ Operational risk 52
▪ Model risk 55
▪ Compliance risk 55
▪ Reputation risk 56
▪ Legal risk and legal, competition and regulatory matters 57
▪ Financial crime risk 58
Principal risk management
The Barclays Bank UK Group’s approach to risk management for ▪ Climate risk management 59
each principal risk with focus on organisation and structure and
▪ Credit risk management 63
roles and responsibilities.
▪ Market risk management 64
▪ Treasury and capital risk management 65
▪ Operational risk management 67
▪ Model risk management 67
▪ Compliance risk management 68
▪ Reputation risk management 69
▪ Legal risk management 69
▪ Financial crime risk management 70

[PAGE 40]

Risk review
Content
Risk performance
Climate risk: The impact on Financial (Credit, Market, Treasury & • Climate risk performance 71
Capital risks) and Operational risks arising from climate change
through physical risks and risks associated with transitioning to a
lower carbon economy.
Credit risk: The risk of loss to the Barclays Bank UK Group from the ▪ Credit risk overview and summary of performance 78
failure of clients, customers or counterparties (including
sovereigns), to fully honour their obligations to the Barclays Bank ▪ Maximum exposure and effects of netting, collateral and 79
risk transfer
UK Group, including the whole and timely payment of principal,
interest, collateral and other receivables. ▪ Expected credit losses 83
▪ Movements in gross exposure and impairment allowance 86
including provisions for loan commitments and financial
guarantees
▪ Management adjustments to models for impairment 100
▪ Measurement uncertainty and sensitivity analysis 102
▪ Analysis of the concentration of credit risk 111
▪ The Barclays Bank UK Group’s approach to management 113
and representation of credit quality
▪ Analysis of specific portfolios and asset types 132
Market risk: The risk of loss arising from potential adverse changes ▪ Market risk overview and summary of performance 134
in the value of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s assets and liabilities
from fluctuation in market variables including, but not limited to,
interest rates, foreign exchange, equity prices, commodity prices,
credit spreads, implied volatilities and asset correlations.
Treasury and Capital risk – Liquidity: ▪ Liquidity risk overview 136
The risk that the Barclays Bank UK Group is unable to meet its
▪ Liquidity risk stress testing 136
contractual or contingent obligations or that it does not have the
appropriate amount, tenor and composition of funding and • Contractual maturity of financial assets and liabilities 138
liquidity to support its assets.
Treasury and Capital risk – Capital: ▪ Capital risk overview 144
The risk that the Barclays Bank UK Group has an insufficient level or
composition of capital to support its normal business activities and
to meet its regulatory capital requirements under normal operating
environments and stressed conditions (both actual and as defined
for internal planning or regulatory testing purposes). This also
includes the risk from the Barclays Bank UK Group’s pension plans.
Treasury and Capital risk – Interest rate risk in the banking book: ▪ Interest rate risk in the banking book overview and 145
The risk that the Barclays Bank UK Group is exposed to capital or summary of performance
income volatility because of a mismatch between the interest rate
▪ Analysis of net interest income and equity sensitivity 145
exposures of its (non-traded) assets and liabilities.
▪ Volatility of the fair value through other comprehensive 146
income (FVOCI) portfolio in the liquidity pool
Operational risk: The risk of loss to the Barclays Bank UK Group ▪ Operational risk overview and summary of performance 147
from inadequate or failed processes or systems, human factors or
▪ Operational risk profile 147
due to external events (for example fraud) where the root cause is
not due to credit or market risks.
Model risk: The potential for adverse consequences from decisions ▪ Model risk overview and summary of performance 150
based on incorrect or misused model outputs and reports.
Compliance risk: The risk of poor outcomes for, or harm to, ▪ Compliance risk overview and summary of performance 150
customers, clients and markets, arising from the delivery of the
Barclays Bank UK Group's products and services (i.e. conduct risk),
and the risk to Barclays, its clients, customers or markets from a
failure to comply with the Laws, Rules and Regulations applicable
to the firm.
Reputation risk: The risk that an action, transaction, investment, ▪ Reputation risk overview and summary of performance 151
event, decision, or business relationship will reduce trust in the
Barclays Bank UK Group’s integrity and/or competence.
Legal risk: The risk of loss or imposition of penalties, damages or ▪ Legal risk overview and summary of performance 151
fines from the failure of the Barclays Bank UK Group to meet its
legal obligations, including regulatory or contractual requirements.

[PAGE 41]

Risk review
Content
Supervision and regulation
The Barclays Bank UK Group’s operations are subject to a ▪ Supervision of the Barclays Bank UK Group 152
significant body of rules and regulations.

[PAGE 42]

Risk review
Risk management
The Barclays Bank UK Group’s risk management strategy
This section introduces Barclays Bank UK Group’s approach to managing and identifying risks, and for fostering a sound risk culture.
Enterprise Risk Management Framework (ERMF)
The ERMF governs the way in which the Barclays Bank UK Group identifies and manages its risks. It outlines the highest level arrangements
for risk management by setting out standards, objectives and key responsibilities of different groups of employees of the Barclays Bank UK
Group. It is approved by the Barclays PLC Board on recommendation of the Barclays Group Board Risk Committee and the Barclays Bank
UK Group Chief Risk Officer (CRO). The Barclays Bank UK PLC Board then approves its adoption on the recommendation of its Risk
Committee, with modifications where needed.
The ERMF sets out:
• risk management and segregation of duties: The ERMF defines a Three Lines of Defence model
• principal risks faced by the Barclays Bank UK Group, which guide the organisation of risk management processes
• risk appetite requirements: this helps define the level of risk the Barclays Bank UK Group is willing to undertake in its business
• roles and responsibilities for risk management and governance.
The ERMF is complemented by frameworks, policies and standards that are mainly aligned to individual principal risks:
• frameworks cover high level principles guiding the management of principal risks, and set out details of which policies are needed, and
high level governance arrangements
• policies set out the control objectives and high level requirements to address the key principles articulated in their associated
frameworks. Policies state ‘what’ those within scope are required to do
• standards set out the detail of the control requirements to ensure the control objectives set by the policies are met.
Segregation of duties - the "Three Lines of Defence" model
The ERMF sets out a clear lines of defence model. All colleagues are responsible for understanding and managing risks within the context
of their individual roles and responsibilities, as set out below.
• The first line comprises all employees engaged in the revenue generating and client facing areas of the Barclays Bank UK Group and all
associated support functions, including Finance, Operations, Treasury, and Human Resources. The first line is responsible for identifying
and managing the risks in which they are engaged, operating within applicable limits, and escalating risk events or issues as appropriate.
Employees in the first line have primary responsibility for their risks and their activities are subject to oversight from the relevant parts of
the second and third lines.
• The second line comprises the Risk and Compliance functions. The role of the second line is to establish the limits, rules and constraints,
and the frameworks, policies and standards under which all activities shall be performed, consistent with the risk appetite of the Barclays
Bank UK Group, and to oversee the performance of the Barclays Bank UK Group against these limits, rules and constraints. Controls for
first line activities will ordinarily be established by the control officers operating within the control framework of the firm. These will
remain subject to oversight by the second line.
• The third line of defence is Internal Audit, and is responsible for providing independent assurance over the effectiveness of governance,
risk management and controls over current, systemic and evolving risks.
• The Legal function provides support to all areas of the bank and is not formally part of any of the three lines of defence. The Legal
function is responsible for proactively identifying, communicating and providing legal advice on applicable laws, rules and regulations.
Except in relation to the legal advice it provides or procures, it is subject to second line oversight with respect to its own operational and
compliance risks, as well as with respect to the legal risk to which the bank is exposed.
Tesco Bank acquisition
On 1 November 2024, the Barclays Bank UK Group completed the acquisition of Tesco Bank which includes credit cards, unsecured
personal loans, deposits and the operating infrastructure. Following the acquisition, the acquired Tesco Bank business continues to operate
largely within its own risk framework, with dispensations in place for material divergences from existing Barclays Bank UK Group policy
requirements. Any subsequent changes to the Tesco Bank approach will be part of integration planning activity.
Principal risks
The ERMF identifies ten principal risks (see managing risk in the strategic report section) namely: credit risk, market risk, treasury and
capital risk, climate risk, operational risk, model risk, compliance risk, financial crime risk, reputation risk and legal risk. In 2024, financial
crime risk was elevated to a principal risk, effective from 1 January 2025. Previously, financial crime risk was managed as part of
compliance risk. Recognising the increased external threat of financial crime, this change will enhance transparency and visibility of
financial crime risk within the Barclays Bank UK Group and reinforce independent assessment, management and oversight of financial
crime risk.

[PAGE 43]

Risk review
Risk management
Each of the principal risks is overseen by an accountable executive at the Barclays Group level who is responsible for overseeing and/or
assigning responsibilities for the framework, policies and standards that set out associated responsibilities and expectations, and detail the
related requirements around risk management. In addition, certain risks span across more than one principal risk.
Risk appetite
Risk appetite is defined as the level of risk which the Barclays Group is prepared to accept in carrying out its activities. It provides a basis for
ongoing dialogue between management and Board with respect to the Barclays Bank UK Group’s current and evolving risk profile, allowing
strategic and financial decisions to be made on an informed basis.
Risk appetite is approved by the Barclays PLC Board in aggregate and disseminated across legal entities and businesses, including the
Barclays Bank UK Group. The Barclays Bank UK Board cannot approve a higher risk appetite than that determined by the Barclays PLC
Board without the approval of the Barclays PLC Board, but may choose to operate at a lower level of risk appetite than that approved by the
Barclays PLC Board. The Barclays Group total risk appetite and its allocation to the Barclays Bank UK Group are supported by limits to
enable and control specific exposures and activities that have material concentration risk implications.

[PAGE 44]

Risk review
Risk management
Risk committees
The various Barclays Bank UK Group risk committees consider risk matters relevant to their business, and escalate as required to the
Barclays UK Risk Committee, whose Chair, in turn, escalates to the Barclays Group Risk Committee, Barclays Bank UK PLC Board Risk
Committee and the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board.
Risk Management
Board Committees Barclays PLC Board
Barclays
Committees Barclays Bank UK PLC Board
UK ExCo
(including Risk and
Audit Committees)
Barclays Bank UK
Barclays Bank UK Barclays Bank UK
PLC Board
PLC Board Risk PLC Board Audit
Remuneration
Committee Committee
Committee
Management Level
Barclays PLC
Committees/ Barclays Group
Barclays UK Risk Committee Remuneration
Forums Risk Committee
Review Panel
Business Level
Committees/ Barclays Bank UK PLC Product/
Forums Risk Type Committees
The Barclays UK Risk Committee is the most senior executive body responsible for reviewing and monitoring the risk profile of the Barclays
Bank UK Group. This includes coverage of all principal risks and any other material risks, to which the Barclays Bank UK Group is exposed.
The Barclays UK Risk Committee reviews and recommends the proposed risk appetite and relative limits to the Barclays Group Risk
Committee and the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board Risk Committee.
The Barclays Group Risk Committee receives regular updates on the risk profile of the Barclays Bank UK Group and will approve the risk
appetite and limits for consideration by the Barclays PLC Board Risk Committee.
The Barclays Bank UK PLC Board receives regular information on the risk profile of the Barclays Bank UK Group, and has ultimate
responsibility for risk appetite and capital plans, within the parameters set by the Barclays PLC Board. The Barclays Bank UK PLC Board is
also responsible for the adoption of the ERMF.
Further, there are two Board-level committees which oversee the application of the ERMF and review and monitor risk across the Barclays
Bank UK Group. These are: the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board Risk Committee and the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board Audit Committee.
Additionally, the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board Remuneration Committee oversees pay practices focusing on aligning pay to sustainable
performance.
▪ The Barclays Bank UK PLC Board Risk Committee (BRC): The BRC monitors Barclays Bank UK Group’s risk profile against the agreed
appetite. Where actual performance differs from expectations, the actions taken by management are reviewed to ascertain that the
committee is comfortable with them. The Barclays Bank UK Group CRO regularly presents a report to the BRC summarising
developments in the risk environment and performance trends in the key portfolios. The BRC also reviews certain key risk methodologies,
the effectiveness of risk management, and Barclays Bank UK Group's risk profile, including the material issues affecting each business
portfolio and forward risk trends. The committee also commissions in-depth analyses of significant risk topics, which are presented by
the Barclays Bank UK Group CRO or senior risk managers in the business.
▪ The Barclays Bank UK PLC Board Audit Committee (BAC): The BAC receives regular reports on the effectiveness of internal control
systems, on material control issues of significance and on accounting judgements, including a review of the adequacy of impairment
allowances.
▪ The Barclays Bank UK PLC Board Remuneration Committee (RemCo): The RemCo receives proposals on ex-ante and ex-post risk
adjustments to variable remuneration based on risk management performance including events, issues and the wider risk profile. These
inputs are considered in the setting of performance incentives.
Key themes and horizon scanning reports, highlighting emerging and forward looking risks, are regularly presented to the BRC for
discussion and analysis. The themes are derived and quantified from principal risk horizon scanning and risk registers, complemented by
senior management and BRC input. Watching brief items are collated and informed alongside the key themes as a list of risks which may
have a more limited impact and likelihood in the near-term but have the potential to develop and meet the key theme definition in the
future. The inventory of key themes is updated regularly with key changes presented to the BRC. The BRC reviews and discusses a report
entitled ‘Key Risk Themes and Management Actions ’ on a quarterly basis.

[PAGE 45]

Risk review
Risk management
The Barclays Bank UK Group’s risk culture
Risk culture can be defined as the norms, attitudes and behaviours related to risk awareness, risk taking and risk management. This is
reflected in how the Barclays Bank UK Group identifies, escalates and manages risk matters.
The Barclays Bank UK Group is committed to maintaining a robust risk culture in which:
• management expect, model and reward the right behaviours from a risk and control perspective
• colleagues identify, manage and escalate risk and control matters, and meet their responsibilities around risk management
The Barclays Bank UK Group CEO works with the Executive Management to embed a sound risk culture within the Barclays Bank UK Group,
with particular regard to the identification, escalation and management of risk matters, in accordance with the ERMF. This is supported by
our Purpose, Values and Mindset, as well by as by setting a standard of consistent excellence. Specifically, all employees regardless of their
positions, functions or locations must play their part in the Barclays Bank UK Group’s risk management. Employees are required to be
familiar with risk management policies which are relevant to their responsibilities, know how to escalate actual or potential risk issues, and
have a role-appropriate level of awareness of the risk management process as defined by the ERMF.
Our Code of Conduct – the Barclays Way
Globally, all colleagues must attest to the “Barclays Way”, our Code of Conduct, and comply with all frameworks, policies and standards
applicable to their roles. The Code of Conduct outlines the Purpose, Values and Mindset which govern our ‘Barclays Way’ of working across
our business globally. It constitutes a reference point covering all aspects of colleagues’ working relationships, and provides guidance on
working with other Barclays employees, customers and clients, governments and regulators, business partners, suppliers, competitors and
the broader community. See home.barclays/sustainability/esg-resource-hub/statements-and-policy-positions/ for more details.

[PAGE 46]

Risk review
Material existing and emerging risks
Material existing and emerging risks to the Barclays Bank UK Group’s future performance
The Barclays Bank UK Group has identified a broad range of risks to which its businesses are exposed. Material risks are those to which
senior management pay particular attention and which could cause the delivery of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s strategy, results of
operations, financial condition and/or prospects to differ materially from expectations. Emerging risks are those which have unknown
components, the impact of which could crystallise over a longer time period. The factors set out below should not be regarded as a
complete and comprehensive statement of all the potential risks and uncertainties which the Barclays Bank UK Group faces For example,
certain other factors beyond the Barclays Bank UK Group’s control, including escalation of global conflicts, acts of terrorism, natural
disasters, pandemics and similar events, although not detailed below, could have a similar impact on the Barclays Bank UK Group.
Material existing and emerging risks potentially impacting more than one principal risk
i) Business conditions, general economy and geopolitical issues
The Barclays Bank UK Group’s operations are subject to changes in global and local economic and market conditions, as well as geopolitical
developments, which may have a material impact on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s business, results of operations, financial condition and
prospects.
A deterioration in global or local economic and market conditions may result in (among other things): (i) deteriorating business, consumer
or investor confidence and lower levels of investment and productivity, which in turn may lead to lower customer and client activity,
including lower demand for borrowing; (ii) higher default rates, delinquencies, write-offs and impairment charges as borrowers struggle
with their debt commitments; (iii) subdued asset prices, which may impact the value of collateral held by the Barclays Bank UK Group and
require the Barclays Bank UK Group and its clients to post additional collateral in order to satisfy margin calls; and (iv) revisions to
calculated expected credit losses (ECLs) leading to increases in impairment allowances. In addition, the Barclays Bank UK Group’s ability to
borrow from other financial institutions or raise funding from external investors may be affected by deteriorating economic conditions and
market disruption. Geopolitical events can also cause financial instability and affect economic growth.
During 2024, global economic growth has remained muted, mainly driven by a more uncertain geopolitical environment, a high interest
rate environment, an economic slowdown in China and continued structural economic issues in the UK and EU. Without limitation, the
Barclays Bank UK Group has observed the following macroeconomic risk themes / trends:
• Limitations on economic output growth, mostly driven by: (i) tight labour markets and low productivity growth in the main western
economies; (ii) large fiscal deficits; and (iii) high energy prices and strained global supply chains driven by geopolitical events such as
the Ukraine war and the conflict in the Middle East have made central banks pursue a slower than expected reduction path for interest
rates. In 2024 these ‘higher-for-longer’ rates have dampened economic activity, increasing fears of a hard-landing scenario across the
US, Europe and the UK which could have a material adverse effect on the Barclays Bank UK Group's results of operations and
profitability.
• The adoption of tariffs and other protectionist measures or countermeasures, particularly by the US, would further complicate the
economic outlook for the EU, China and other export-driven emerging markets given their trade surpluses. This could have a material
adverse effect on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s business in the affected region.
• The UK, which is the Barclays Bank UK Group's main retail banking market, faces a number of structural challenges. The Labour
government has identified economic growth as a priority. However, the long-term impacts of the latest budget and tax increases
remain uncertain with risks to the Barclays Bank UK Group's retail and corporate businesses in case of economic underperformance.
This could have a material adverse effect on the Barclays Bank UK Group's results of operations and profitability.
• The loss of ‘the presumption of conformity’ is widely reported to have raised costs for UK customers exporting to the EU as it results in
their products no longer presumed to be in line with corresponding EU rules, which, together with the risk of regulatory divergence
between the UK and the EU, could adversely impact the Barclays Bank UK Group operations.
A deterioration in the aforementioned economic and business environment could result in (among other things):
• A prolonged slowdown in the markets where the Barclays Bank UK Group operates, with lower economic output, higher
unemployment, and depressed property prices, which could lead to increased impairments in relation to a number of Barclays Bank UK
Group’s portfolios (including, but not limited to, the mortgage portfolio, the unsecured lending portfolio (including credit cards) and
commercial real estate exposures).
• Increased market volatility (in particular in currencies and interest rates), which could affect the underlying value of assets held in the
banking book including securities held by the Barclays Bank UK Group for liquidity purposes. In addition, market confidence and
depositor perceptions of banking fragility as seen in certain institutions in 2023 could increase the severity and velocity of deposit
outflows, impacting Barclays Bank UK Group’s liquidity position;
• A credit rating downgrade for one or more members of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s parent entity, Barclays PLC (either directly or
indirectly as a result of a downgrade in the UK sovereign credit ratings), which could significantly increase the Barclays Bank UK
Group’s cost of funding and/or reduce its access to funding, widen credit spreads and have a material adverse impact on the Barclays
Bank UK Group’s interest margins and liquidity position; and/or
• A market-wide widening of credit spreads or reduced investor appetite for Barclays Bank UK Group’s debt securities, which could
negatively impact the Barclays Bank UK Group’s cost of and/or access to funding.

[PAGE 47]

Risk review
Material existing and emerging risks
In addition to subdued economic growth, other risk factors could adversely affect the business environment in which Barclays Bank UK
Group operates:
• Economic activity is becoming increasingly dependent on data, technology, networks, infrastructure and cybersecurity, heightening the
risk and potential impact of service disruptions, either accidental or driven by bad actors such as cybercriminals or states using
asymmetric tactics.
• Financial institutions are often perceived to have a role in global developments or events like climate change, digitalisation, conflict in
the Middle East, fraud, money laundering and sanctions, which give rise to reputational risks which are complicated to navigate.
• Recent disruptions to global supply chains, including as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, semi-conductor shortages, the Russia-
Ukraine conflict, the Red Sea freight disruptions and the Panama Canal drought have all had an impact and underlined the potential for
further adverse impacts on the markets in which the Barclays Bank UK Group operates. Further geopolitical deterioration, in particular
in the Middle East and/or South China Sea and trade war related de-coupling of production chains could also have a negative impact
on the markets in which the Barclays Bank UK Group operates.
The circumstances mentioned above could have a material adverse effect on Barclays Bank UK Group’s business, results of operations,
financial condition, prospects, liquidity, capital position and credit ratings (including potential credit rating agency changes of outlooks or
ratings), as well as on Barclays Bank UK Group’s customers, clients, employees and suppliers.
ii) The impact of interest rate changes on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s profitability
The impact from changes to the Bank of England base interest rate and swap rates are potentially significant for the Barclays Bank UK
Group, especially given the uncertainty as to the size and frequency of such changes.
Lower interest rates could put pressure on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s net interest margins (the difference between lending income and
borrowing costs) due to either a delay in passthrough or a smaller passthrough of the interest rate cuts to customer deposits. This could
adversely affect the profitability and prospects of the Barclays Bank UK Group.
Higher interest rates could result in higher funding costs either due to higher refinancing costs or due to deposit balance mix changes as
customers prefer switching into deposits that pay a higher rate. In addition, interest rates remaining higher for longer (due to either smaller
or less frequent than expected interest rate cuts, or larger or more frequent than expected interest rate increases), could lead to generally
weaker than expected growth, reduced business confidence and higher unemployment. This, combined with the impact that higher
interest rates may have on the affordability of loan arrangements for borrowers (especially when combined with inflationary pressures),
could cause stress in the lending portfolio. This could result in higher credit losses driving increased impairment charges which would most
notably impact retail unsecured portfolios and could have a material effect on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s business, results of operations,
financial condition and prospects.
In addition, changes in interest rates could have an adverse impact on the value of the securities held in the Barclays Bank UK Group’s liquid
asset portfolio. Consequently, this could create more volatility than expected through the Barclays Bank UK Group’s fair value through other
comprehensive income (FVOCI) reserve and could adversely affect the profitability and prospects of the Barclays Bank UK Group.
iii) Competition in the banking and financial services industry
The Barclays Bank UK Group operates in a highly competitive environment in which it must evolve and adapt to significant changes as a
result of regulatory reform, technological advances, increased public scrutiny and changes to market and economic conditions. The
Barclays Bank UK Group expects that competition in the financial services industry will remain intense and may have a material adverse
effect on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s future business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.
New competitors in the financial services industry continue to emerge. For example, technological advances and the growth of e-
commerce have made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services that traditionally were banking products such as electronic
securities trading, payments processing and online automated algorithmic-based investment advice. Furthermore, payments processing
and other services could be significantly disrupted by technologies, such as blockchain (used in cryptocurrency systems) and ‘buy now pay
later’ lending, both of which are currently subject to lower levels of regulatory oversight compared to many activities undertaken by banks.
Furthermore, the introduction of central bank digital currencies could have a significant impact on the banking system and the role of
commercial banks by disrupting the current provision of banking products and services. This disruption could allow new competitors, some
previously hindered by banking regulation (such as certain FinTechs), to provide customers with access to banking facilities and increase
the disintermediation of banking services.
New technologies and changing consumer behaviour have previously required, and could continue to require, the Barclays Bank UK Group
to incur additional costs to modify or adapt its products or make additional capital investments in its businesses to attract and retain clients
and customers or to match products and services offered by its competitors, including technology companies. For example, the Barclays
Bank UK Group has begun to take steps to expand its investment in and to integrate AI technologies, including generative AI. Such AI
technologies and services are rapidly evolving, and require significant investment, including development and operational costs, to meet
the changing needs and expectations of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s customers and clients. Failure to efficiently develop or integrate such
AI technologies may impact the Barclays Bank UK Group’s competitive position and its ability to increase the efficiency of and reduce costs
associated with its operations and to offer innovative products and services to customers.

[PAGE 48]

Risk review
Material existing and emerging risks
Ongoing or increased competition and/or disintermediation of banking services may put pressure on the pricing of the Barclays Bank UK
Group’s products and services, which could reduce the Barclays Bank UK Group's revenues and profitability, or may cause the Barclays
Bank UK Group to lose market share, particularly with respect to traditional banking products such as deposits, bank accounts and
mortgage lending. This competition may be on the basis of the quality and variety of products and services offered, transaction execution,
innovation, reputation and/or price. These factors may be exacerbated by further regulatory change. The failure of any of the Barclays Bank
UK Group’s businesses to meet the expectations of clients and customers, whether due to general market conditions, underperformance, a
decision not to offer a particular product or service, branch closures, changes in client and customer expectations or other factors, could
affect the Barclays Bank UK Group’s ability to attract or retain clients and customers. Any such impact could, in turn, reduce the Barclays
Bank UK Group’s revenues.
iv) Regulatory change agenda and impact on business model
The Barclays Bank UK Group’s businesses are subject to ongoing regulation and associated regulatory risks, including the effects of
changes in the laws, regulations, policies, voluntary codes of practice and interpretations of the foregoing in the UK and, in some cases,
other jurisdictions. Many legislative and regulatory changes that are relevant to the Barclays Bank UK Group’s business may have an effect
beyond the country in which they are enacted, either because sectoral regulators within the banking and finance industries and legislators
in national and supranational governments deliberately enact laws and/or regulations with extra-territorial effect or because the nature or
location of its operations mean that the Barclays Bank UK Group gives effect to local laws and regulations on a wider basis.
In recent years, regulators and governments have focused on reforming both the prudential regulation of the financial services industry and
the ways in which the business of financial services is conducted. Measures taken include enhanced capital, liquidity and funding
requirements, the structural separation or prohibition of certain activities by banks, the introduction of tax levies and transaction taxes,
changes in compensation practices, and more detailed requirements on how business is conducted and customers are treated.
Governments and regulators in the UK or elsewhere may intervene further in relation to areas of industry risk and/or regulatory risk already
identified, or in new areas, which could adversely affect the Barclays Bank UK Group.
Current and anticipated areas of particular focus for the Barclays Bank UK Group’s regulators, where regulatory changes could have a
material effect on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects, capital, liquidity or funding
position, and reputation include, but are not limited to:
• the continued focus by regulators, international bodies, organisations and unions on how institutions conduct business,
particularly with regard to the delivery of fair outcomes for customers, promoting effective competition in the interests of
consumers and ensuring the orderly and transparent operation of global financial markets, including the Consumer Duty in the
UK and review of the provision of financial advice to consumers;
• the implementation of any conduct measures as a result of regulators’ focus on and review of organisational culture, employee
behaviour and whistleblowing, as well as proposals for a new regulatory framework on diversity and inclusion in the UK, with a
particular focus on firms’ management of non-financial misconduct matters;
• the UK regulators’ strategy for and promotion of competitive markets and growth, both domestically and internationally;
• the increasing regulatory expectations and requirements relating to various aspects of operational resilience, including an
increasing focus on minimising the impact of operational disruptions (including digital operational disruptions) on the UK
financial sector, the role of critical third-party service providers to financial institutions, and operational incident and third party
reporting requirements;
• the focus globally on technology adoption and digital delivery, including the use of artificial intelligence (AI), digital assets and
digital money (including central bank digital currencies), payments and related infrastructure, and cybersecurity. This also
includes the introduction of new and/or enhanced laws and/or regulatory standards in these areas, underpinned by customer
protection principles, and actions by regulators that are designed to support the use of AI in the financial sector;
• the continued evolution of the UK’s regulatory framework following the UK's withdrawal from the EU, particularly following the
implementation of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2023 (FSMA 2023) which provides for the ongoing revocation and
repeal of assimilated law relating to financial services and, where relevant, its replacement with rules made (or to be made) by UK
regulators, as well as any areas of divergence between the UK and EU regulatory regimes;
• the implementation of the reforms to the finalisation of the Basel III package, which includes changes to the RWA approaches to
credit risk, market risk, counterparty risk, operational risk, and credit valuation adjustments risk, the application of input and
output floors and the leverage ratio, as well as potential reforms to other aspects of prudential regulation, including the large
exposures framework, the UK policy framework for capital buffers, and amendments to the Bank of England’s approach to
setting a minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities (MREL);
• greater monitoring of and implementation of policies to address capital requirements, liquidity risk and credit risk management;
and continuing focus on review of and assurance activities in relation to reporting methodology and data quality;
• increasing regulatory expectations of firms around governance and risk management frameworks, particularly for the
management of climate change and other ESG risks, enhanced ESG disclosure and reporting obligations corporate sustainability
due diligence obligations, anti-greenwashing rules and requirements to develop and disclose a climate transition plan;

[PAGE 49]

Risk review
Material existing and emerging risks
• the incorporation of climate change considerations, including transition risks in particular, within the global prudential
framework;
• the operation of, and recent reforms to, the UK ring-fencing regime. The ring-fencing regime requires among other things, the
separation of the retail and SME deposit-taking activities of UK banks from wholesale and investment banking operations into a
legally distinct, operationally separate and economically independent entity (i.e., a ‘ring-fenced’ bank), which is not permitted to
undertake a range of activities;
• the introduction of measures in the UK designed to preserve access to cash for consumers (including the retention of specific
branches) and, more generally, access to payment accounts;
• changes in national or supra-national requirements regarding the ability to offshore or outsource the provision of services and
resources or transfer material risk or data to companies located in other countries, which could impact the Barclays Bank UK
Group’s ability to implement globally consistent and efficient operating models;
• the continued focus by regulators worldwide and industry bodies on benchmark reform and market transition to new risk-free
reference rates. Given the unpredictable consequences of benchmark reform, there could be an adverse impact on market
participants, including the Group, in respect of financial instruments linked to, or referencing any ceasing benchmarks or their
replacement rates;
• financial crime, fraud and market abuse standards and increasing expectations for related control frameworks, to ensure firms
are adapting to new threats and are protecting customers from cyber-enabled crime and, in the UK, reforms relating to
authorised push payment fraud reimbursements and the ability of payment service providers to delay the processing of
transactions in certain circumstances;
• the reform of corporate criminal liability in the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act 2023 in the UK, which includes
a failure to prevent fraud offence;
• the application and enforcement of economic sanctions, including those with extra-territorial effect and those arising from
geopolitical tensions;
• requirements flowing from arrangements for the resolution strategy of the Barclays Group and its individual operating entities
(including the Barclays Bank UK Group) that may have different effects in different countries;
• continuing regulatory focus on data privacy, including the collection and use of personal data, and protection against loss and
unauthorised or improper access to, or disclosure of, such data;
• ongoing requirements to allocate and monitor management accountability within the Barclays Bank UK Group (for example, the
requirements of the Senior Managers and Certification Regime in the UK and similar regimes elsewhere that are either in effect,
are due to come into effect in the future or are under consideration, including new rules in the EU applicable to appointing senior
managers), as well as requirements relating to executive remuneration and, separately, potential reforms to the UK’s Certification
Regime; and
• continuing regulatory focus on the effectiveness of internal controls and risk management frameworks, as evidenced in
regulatory fines and other measures imposed on the Barclays Bank UK Group and other financial institutions.
For further details on the regulatory supervision of, and regulations applicable to, the Barclays Bank UK Group, refer to the Supervision and
regulation section.
v) Change delivery and execution risks
The Barclays Bank UK Group constantly adapts and transforms the way it conducts business in response to changing customer behaviour
and needs, technological developments, regulatory expectations, increased competition and cost management initiatives. The Barclays
Group announced, as part of the Investor Update in February 2024, a plan to become simpler, better and more balanced. This strategic plan
is intended to enable the Barclays Group to improve its customer service, provide more support to consumers and businesses, deliver
higher quality income growth and build returns. Accordingly, effective management of transformation projects is required to successfully
deliver the Barclays Bank UK Group's strategic priorities, involving delivering both on externally driven programmes, as well as key business
initiatives to deliver revenue growth, product enhancement and operational efficiency outcomes. The magnitude, complexity and, at times,
concurrent demands of the projects required to meet these priorities can result in heightened execution risk.
The ability to execute the Barclays Bank UK Group’s strategy may be limited by operational capacity and the increasing complexity of the
regulatory environment in which the Barclays Bank UK Group operates. In addition, whilst the Barclays Bank UK Group continues to pursue
cost management initiatives, they may not be as effective as expected and cost saving targets may not be met.
The failure to successfully deliver or achieve any of the expected benefits of these strategic initiatives and/or the failure to meet customer
and stakeholder expectations could have a material adverse effect on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s business, results of operations,
financial condition, customer outcomes, prospects and reputation.

[PAGE 50]

Risk review
Material existing and emerging risks
vi) Acquisition of Tesco Bank
On 1 November 2024, the Barclays Bank UK Group acquired the retail banking business (“Tesco Bank”) from Tesco Personal Finance PLC
(the “Tesco Bank acquisition”) and entered into a 10 year strategic partnership with Tesco Stores Limited (the “Tesco Partnership”) to
continue to originate banking products and services using the Tesco Bank brand.
Actual results associated with the acquisition of Tesco Bank and entry into the Tesco Partnership may differ from the anticipated results,
including with respect to: (i) the overall future performance of the assets and liabilities acquired through the Tesco Bank acquisition; (ii) the
level of integration achieved, and the cost and timing of any integration, for Tesco Bank; and (iii) the cost and timing to achieve full
separation of Tesco Bank from the businesses that remain with Tesco Personal Finance PLC (i.e. Tesco Insurance and Money Services).
The success of the transaction, including anticipated benefits and cost savings, will depend, in part, on the ability to successfully integrate
the operations of both firms. Integrating an acquired business can be both challenging and costly, requiring changes to accounting
systems, data processing systems and management controls. The integration process could disrupt ongoing operations or lead to
inconsistencies in controls, procedures and policies, which could negatively impact the Barclays Bank UK Group's ability to maintain
relationships with customers, suppliers and other business stakeholders, including Tesco Stores Limited. The establishment of the Tesco
Partnership introduces complexity and could adversely impact the overall benefits achieved. Additionally, the loss of key colleagues in
connection with the acquisition could adversely affect the Barclays Bank UK Group's ability to successfully conduct its business.
While the Barclays Bank UK Group has completed the Tesco Bank acquisition, certain infrastructure continues to be shared with the
business retained by Tesco Personal Finance PLC (i.e., Tesco Insurance and Money Services) to ensure continuity of both operations. The
cost and timing to complete this separation may vary from anticipated plans, and will require changes to accounting systems, data
processing systems and management controls.
vii) Card Partnerships
The Barclays Bank UK Group maintains several co-branded credit cards and credit card partnership agreements. Such arrangements are a
means of reaching new customers and expanding brand reach, but there is significant competition among card issuers for these
relationships. A deterioration in or failure to maintain these credit card relationships with co-brand partners, including non-renewal of
contracts with existing partners, early termination of partnership arrangements due to a contractual breach and changes in consumer
behaviour regarding spending patterns, could have a negative impact on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s business, results of operations,
financial condition and prospects.
Material existing and emerging risks impacting individual principal risks
i) Climate risk
Climate risk is the risk of financial losses arising from climate change, through physical risks and risks associated with transitioning to a
lower carbon economy.
The effects of climate change may be highly significant in their breadth and magnitude and could affect a large number of firms operating
in different sectors and geographies, leading to potential downstream effects to the financial system.
There is a potential direct impact on banks and other financial institutions through their operations, as well as indirectly through customers
and clients. Given this context and to support the Group’s ambition to be a net zero bank by 2050, Climate Risk is a Principal Risk under
Barclays’ ERMF. It manages the financial and operational risks of climate change.
Physical risks, such as acute weather events (e.g. cyclones, hurricanes and floods) and long-term climate pattern shifts (e.g. droughts,
temperature and precipitation levels) can lead to damage to fixed assets, operational disruptions, changes in production outputs and
increased costs. The potential impacts of physical risk events on the economy may include lower GDP growth, higher unemployment,
shortage of raw materials and products, supply chain disruptions, significant fluctuations in prices of assets (such as in the real estate
sector) and shifting demands for goods and service. These factors could subsequently impact the business model and profitability of
Barclays Bank UK Group and its clients by negatively impacting, among other things: (1) the creditworthiness of clients which may result in
higher defaults, delinquencies, write-offs and impairment charges in Barclays Bank UK Group’s portfolios; (ii) the creditworthiness of the
sovereigns of countries in which they occur. The deterioration in the credit ratings of sovereign bonds could affect their access to capital
and their eligibility for inclusion in banks’ liquidity buffers; and (iii) the value of investments which the Bank holds.
A transition to a low-carbon economy requires policy and regulatory changes, new national and regional commitments, new technological
innovations and changes to supply and demand systems within industries. The transition to a low-carbon economy may also trigger
changes in consumer behaviour and market sentiment. This gives rise to transition risks from increased costs and reduced demand for the
products and services of a company including early retirement and impairment of assets, or decreased revenue and profitability.
Barclays Bank UK Group’s clients that are more susceptible and exposed to these changes may face operational and financial difficulties
which in turn may impact their creditworthiness. In addition, climate-related legal actions or investigations may have material financial
impacts on the Barclays Bank UK Group's clients, customers and counterparties (particularly in high carbon sectors). This in turn can
increase credit risk within group portfolios (for further details on credit risk, refer to ii) Credit Risk on page 50).

[PAGE 51]

Risk review
Material existing and emerging risks
Both physical risk and transition risk factors have the potential to trigger large, sudden and negative price adjustments where climate risk
has not yet been incorporated into prices, which could increase market risk in the Barclays Bank UK Group’s portfolios. Fluctuations in
markets and prices of assets in susceptible sectors or countries could drive losses to the value of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s assets and
liabilities.
Physical risk and transition risk factors can lead to impacts on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s own operations including damage or
unsuitability of premises, disruption to business operations and supply chains and it’s ability to recover from outages (e.g. caused by
workforce, technology and third-party service providers). For example, extreme weather events can impact the operation of bank offices,
branches, and support facilities such as data centres. Additionally, Barclays Bank UK Group has experienced and may continue to
experience in the future, disruptions in its operations as a result of branch closures and security breaches due to climate-related protests
against the Group due to its lending activities. Transition risk can also lead to secondary impacts on operational risks, such as the risk of
misreporting as a result of enhanced regulatory disclosures requirements.
There is significant uncertainty surrounding the timeframes in which both physical and transition risks may manifest, driven by the
interplay of environmental, political and societal factors. Physical risks, such as acute weather events and long-term climate pattern shifts,
are difficult to predict due to complex interactions between climate system dynamics and human activities. Similarly, the timing of
transition risks arising from factors like policy changes, technological innovations or shifts in market sentiment are equally unpredictable.
This poses significant challenges to the Barclays Bank UK Group in assessment, quantification, and management of climate risk.
Barclays Bank UK Group also needs to ensure that its strategy and business model adapt to changing national and international standards,
industry and scientific practices, regulatory requirements and market expectations regarding climate change, which remain under
continuous development. The Barclays Bank UK Group may face challenges from changing circumstances and external factors which are
beyond the Group’s control, including geopolitical issues, energy security, energy poverty and other considerations such as a just transition
to a low-carbon economy. Achieving the Group's climate-related ambitions and targets (which includes the Bank’s portfolio’s) will also
depend on a number of factors outside the Group's control, including reliable forecasts of hazards from physical climate models and
availability of data / models to measure / assess climate impact on clients. The pathway to net zero is uncertain, complex and dependent
on progress in various areas such as advances in low-carbon technologies, collective action by clients to meet their own net zero goals, and
supportive public policies in markets where Barclays operates. If there is a lack of progress in the aforementioned areas, Barclays may fail to
achieve its climate-related ambitions and targets, and this could have a material adverse effect on Barclays’ business, operations, financial
condition, prospects and reputation.
For further detail on how Barclays Bank UK Group manages the risks associated with climate change, refer to the Climate Risk Management
section.
ii) Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of loss to the Barclays Bank UK Group from the failure of clients, customers or counterparties, including sovereigns, to
fully honour their obligations to members of the Barclays Bank UK Group, including the whole and timely payment of principal, interest,
collateral, and other receivables. Credit risk is impacted by a number of factors outside the Barclays Bank UK Group’s control, including
wider economic conditions.
a) Impairment
Impairment is calculated in line with the requirements of IFRS9. Loss allowances, based on ECLs, are measured on a forward-looking basis
using a broad range of financial metrics and application of complex judgements. Accordingly, impairment charges are potentially volatile
and may not successfully predict actual credit losses, particularly under stressed conditions. Failure by the Barclays Bank UK Group to
accurately estimate credit losses through ECLs could have a material adverse effect on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s business, results of
operations, financial condition, and prospects. For further details, refer to Note 8.
b) Specific portfolios, sectors, and concentrations
The Barclays Bank UK Group is subject to risks arising from changes in credit quality and recovery rates for loans and advances due from
borrowers and counterparties. Additionally, the Barclays Bank UK Group is subject to a concentration of those risks where it has significant
exposures to borrowers and counterparties in specific sectors, or to particular types of borrowers and counterparties. Any deterioration in
the credit quality of such borrowers and counterparties could lead to lower recoverability from loans and advances, and higher impairment
charges. Accordingly, any of the following areas of uncertainty could have a material adverse impact on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s
business, results of operations, financial condition, and prospects:
▪ Consumer affordability: whilst the pressures from increased cost of living eased in the latter half of 2024 as interest rates and inflation
fell, this remains an area of focus. Macroeconomic factors, such as unemployment, high interest rates or broader inflationary pressures,
which impact a customer’s ability to service debt payments, could lead to increased arrears in both unsecured and secured products.
• UK Retail, Hospitality and Leisure: despite holding up reasonably well during most of 2024, continuing cost of living pressures, falling
consumer confidence, or other macroeconomic factors adversely affecting consumers could trigger a contraction in demand which,
together with rising business costs and, for UK retail, a structural shift to online shopping, would add pressure to sectors heavily reliant
on consumer discretionary spending. This represents a potential risk in the Barclays Bank UK Group’s corporate portfolio as a higher
probability of default exists for retailers, hospitality providers and their landlords while these pressures remain.

[PAGE 52]

Risk review
Material existing and emerging risks
▪ Real Estate: UK property represents a significant portion of the Barclays Bank UK Group's overall retail credit exposure, and the Barclays
Bank UK Group remains at risk of increased impairment from a material fall in property prices. Following interest rate cuts in 2024,
housing market activity increased and is likely to continue with further interest rate cuts. However, as mortgages continue to roll off
existing rates onto new higher rates, there is an increased risk of borrower defaults. This could put further downward pressure on
property prices and, in turn, impact the Barclays Bank UK Group’s impairment and capital position. Furthermore, certain segments of
the housing market could be subject to specific valuation impacts (for example, certain properties within the Barclays Bank UK Group's
residential loan portfolio may be subject to remediation activities relating to fire safety standards; similarly, certain properties within the
Barclays Bank UK Group's buy-to-let portfolio may be subject to remediation activities to meet minimum Energy Performance
Certificate rating requirements).
Impact to the creditworthiness of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s clients, customers and counterparties (particularly in high carbon sectors),
can also arise out of climate-related legal actions or investigations commenced against the Barclays Bank UK Group’s clients, customers
and counterparties (particularly in high carbon sectors), where outcomes of such actions have material financial impacts, which can in turn
increase credit risk within the Barclays Bank UK Group portfolios. For further details on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s approach to credit
risk, refer to the credit risk management and credit risk performance section.
iii) Treasury and capital risk
There are three primary types of treasury and capital risk faced by the Barclays Bank UK Group:
a) Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Barclays Bank UK Group is unable to meet its contractual or contingent obligations or that it does not have
the appropriate amount, tenor and composition of funding and liquidity to support its assets. This could cause the Barclays Bank UK Group
to fail to meet regulatory and/or internal liquidity requirements, make repayments of principal or interest as they fall due or to support day-
to-day business activities. Key liquidity risks that the Barclays Bank UK Group faces include:
▪ Stability of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s deposit funding profile: deposits which are payable on demand or at short notice could be
adversely affected by the Barclays Bank UK Group failing to preserve the current level of customer and investor confidence or as a
result of competition in the banking industry.
• Impacts of market volatility: adverse market conditions, with increased volatility in asset prices, could: (i) negatively impact the Barclays
Bank UK Group’s liquidity position through increased derivative margin requirements and/or wider haircuts when monetising liquidity
pool securities; (ii) make it more difficult to execute secured financing transactions; and (iii) expose the Barclays Bank UK Group to
currency risk leading to increased cash flow currency mismatch.
▪ Intraday liquidity usage: increased cash and collateral requirements for payments and securities settlement systems could negatively
impact the Barclays Bank UK Group’s liquidity position, as cash and liquid assets required for intraday purposes are unavailable to meet
other outflows.
▪ Off-balance sheet commitments: deterioration in economic and market conditions could cause customers to draw on off-balance
sheet commitments provided to them, for example, revolving credit facilities, negatively affecting the Barclays Bank UK Group’s liquidity
position.
▪ Credit rating changes and impact on funding costs: any reductions in a credit rating (in particular, any downgrade below investment
grade) may affect the Barclays Bank UK Group’s access to money markets and/or the terms on which the Barclays Bank UK Group is
able to obtain market funding. For example, this could lead to increased costs of funding and wider credit spreads, the triggering of
additional collateral or other requirements in derivative contracts and other secured funding arrangements, or limits on the range of
counterparties who are willing to enter into transactions with the Barclays Bank UK Group.
These liquidity risks were not materially changed by the acquisition of the retail banking assets and liabilities of Tesco Bank on 1 November
2024. Primary liquidity risks from this acquisition relate to the deposit book and off-balance sheet commitments in the form of available
credit on Credit Cards.
b) Capital risk
Capital risk is the risk that the Barclays Bank UK Group has an insufficient level or composition of capital to support its normal business
activities and to meet its regulatory capital requirements under normal operating environments and stressed conditions (both actual and as
defined for internal planning or regulatory stress testing purposes). This also includes the risk from the Barclays Group’s pension plans. Key
capital risks that the Barclays Bank UK Group faces include:
• Failure to meet prudential capital requirements: this could lead to the Barclays Bank UK Group being unable to support some or all of
its business activities, a failure to pass regulatory stress tests, increased cost of funding due to deterioration in investor appetite or
credit ratings, restrictions on distributions and/or the need to take additional measures to strengthen the Barclays Bank UK Group's
capital or leverage position.
• Adverse changes in FX rates impacting capital ratios: the Barclays Bank UK Group share capital is denominated in sterling. However,
some capital resources and MREL are denominated in foreign currencies. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates may adversely

[PAGE 53]

Risk review
Material existing and emerging risks
impact the sterling equivalent value of these items. As a result, the Barclays Bank UK Group’s regulatory capital ratios are sensitive to
foreign currency movements. Failure to appropriately manage the Barclays Bank UK Group’s balance sheet to take account of foreign
currency movements could result in an adverse impact on its regulatory capital.
c) Interest rate risk in the banking book
Interest rate risk in the banking book is the risk that the Barclays Bank UK Group is exposed to capital or income volatility because of a
mismatch between the interest rate exposures of its (non-traded) assets and liabilities. This also includes credit spread risk in the banking
book, the risk that the Barclays Bank UK Group is exposed to capital or income volatility because of changes in credit spreads on its (non-
traded) assets and liabilities. The Barclays Bank UK Group’s hedging programmes for interest rate risk in the banking book rely on
behavioural assumptions and, as a result, the effectiveness of the hedging strategy cannot be guaranteed. A potential mismatch in the
balance or duration of the hedging assumptions could lead to earnings deterioration if there are interest rate movements which are not
adequately hedged. A decline in sterling interest rates may also compress net interest margins on retail portfolios. In addition, the Barclays
Bank UK Group’s liquid asset portfolio is exposed to potential capital and/or income volatility due to movements in market rates and prices
which may have a material adverse effect on the capital position of the Barclays Bank UK Group.
For further details on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s approach to treasury and capital risk, refer to the treasury and capital risk management
and treasury and capital risk performance sections.
iv) Operational risk
Operational risk is the risk of loss to the Barclays Bank UK Group from inadequate or failed processes or systems, human factors or due to
external events where the root cause is not due to credit or market risks. Examples include:
a) Operational resilience
The Barclays Bank UK Group functions in a highly competitive market, with customers and clients that expect consistent and smooth
business processes. The loss of or disruption to business processing is a material inherent risk within the Barclays Bank UK Group and
across the financial services industry, which has impacted the Barclays Bank UK Group in the past and may continue to impact the Barclays
Bank UK Group in the future, whether arising through failures in the Barclays Bank UK Group’s technology systems, cyber and/or data
integrity disruptions, unavailability of a Barclays Bank UK Group site, or unavailability of personnel or services supplied by third parties. A
challenge for the Barclays Bank UK Group, as for virtually all companies, is the ability to recover from and remain within impact tolerance
for a pervasive cyberattack which impacts a number of applications, data and infrastructure services. Failure to build resilience and
recovery capabilities into business processes, or into the services on which the Barclays Bank UK Group’s business processes depend, may
result in significant customer harm, costs to reimburse losses incurred by the Barclays Bank UK Group’s customers and clients, and
reputational damage. There are also risks associated with increasing regulatory focus and new developments on operational resilience,
which are considered in risk factor (iv) ‘Regulatory change agenda and impact on business model’ above.
b) Cyberattacks
Cyberattacks continue to be a global threat inherent across all industries, with the number and severity of attacks continuing to rise. The
financial sector remains a primary target for cybercriminals, hostile nation states (including nation-state-sponsored groups), opportunists
and hacktivists. The Barclays Bank UK Group experiences numerous attempts to compromise its cybersecurity protections. In 2024,
cybersecurity incidents experienced by the Barclays Bank UK Group included distributed denial of service (DDoS), phishing, and credential
stuffing.
The Barclays Bank UK Group cannot provide absolute security against cyberattacks. Malicious actors, who are increasingly sophisticated in
their methods, tactics, techniques and procedures, seek to steal money, gain unauthorised access to, destroy or manipulate data, and
disrupt operations. Further, some attacks may not be recognised or discovered until launched or after initial entry into the environment,
such as novel or zero-day attacks that are launched before patches are available and defences can be readied. Other attacks may take
advantage of the window during which patching or the deployment of other defences is underway, but not yet complete. Malicious actors
are also increasingly developing methods to avoid detection and alerting capabilities, including by employing counter-forensic tactics
making response activities more difficult.
Cyberattacks can originate from a wide variety of sources and target the Barclays Bank UK Group in numerous ways, including via the
Barclays Bank UK Group's networks, systems, applications, devices, or parties such as service providers and other suppliers, counterparties,
employees, contractors, customers or clients, presenting the Barclays Bank UK Group with a vast and complex defence perimeter.
Moreover, the Barclays Bank UK Group does not have direct control over the cybersecurity of the systems of its clients, customers,
counterparties and third party service providers and suppliers, limiting the Barclays Bank UK Group’s ability to effectively protect and
defend against certain threats. Some of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s third party service providers and suppliers have experienced
successful attempts to compromise their cybersecurity. These have included incidents resulting in the compromise of the Barclays Bank UK
Group's data and ransomware attacks that disrupted service providers’ or suppliers’ operations and, in some cases, have had impacts on
the Barclays Bank UK Group's operations. Such cyberattacks are likely to continue. Many of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s agreements with
third parties include liability or indemnification provisions, but the Barclays Bank UK Group may not be able to recover sufficiently, or at all,
under these provisions to adequately offset any losses or other adverse impacts the Barclays Bank UK Group may incur from third party
incidents.
Inadequacies in, or failures in the adherence to, the Barclays Bank UK Group's cybersecurity policies, procedures or controls; failure to keep
pace with evolving technology; instances of employee negligence, recklessness, malfeasance, poor password management, or

[PAGE 54]

Risk review
Material existing and emerging risks
susceptibility to social engineering; misconfigurations in technology and security infrastructure; authentication and access management
lapses; imperfect control frameworks or operational effectiveness; and human, governance or technological error could also compromise
the Barclays Bank UK Group’s ability to successfully prevent and defend against cyberattacks. Furthermore, certain legacy technologies that
are at or approaching end-of-life may not be able to maintain acceptable levels of security. The Barclays Bank UK Group's assessment of its
cybersecurity risk in 2024 highlighted an elevated cybersecurity risk profile, due to factors such as the onset of AI, which may be used to
facilitate increasingly sophisticated attacks, including AI-enabled social engineering; ongoing work to address areas in need of
enhancement identified through cybersecurity testing; bad actors’ increasing ability to elude our defences and take advantage of customer
and employee behaviours in novel ways; and geopolitical turmoil that could impact the Barclays Bank UK Group directly, or indirectly
through its critical suppliers or national infrastructure, including escalating conflicts in Eastern Europe and the Middle East.
Certain cybersecurity risks to the Barclays Bank UK Group may be unknown to management and therefore not fully accounted for in the
Barclays Bank UK Group's cybersecurity assessments, strategy and programme priorities. For example, we continue to implement
enhancements identified through cybersecurity testing and reviews in 2024.
Common types of cyberattacks include deployment of malware to obtain covert access to systems and data; ransomware attacks that
render systems and data unavailable through encryption and attempts to leverage business interruption or stolen data for extortion; novel
or zero-day exploits; denial of service and distributed denial of service attacks; infiltration via business email compromise; social
engineering, including phishing, vishing and smishing; automated attacks using botnets; third party customer, vendor, service provider and
supplier account takeover; malicious activity facilitated by an insider; and credential validation or stuffing attacks using login and password
pairs from unrelated breaches. A successful cyberattack of any type has the potential to cause serious harm to the Barclays Bank UK Group
or its clients and customers, including exposure to potential contractual liability, claims, litigation, regulatory or other government action,
loss of existing or potential customers, damage to the Barclays Bank UK Group’s brand and reputation, and other financial loss. The impact
of a successful cyberattack is also likely to include operational consequences (such as unavailability of services, networks, systems, devices
or data), remediation of which could come at significant cost. While Barclays Bank UK Group maintains insurance coverage that may,
subject to relevant retentions, cover certain types of losses related to cybersecurity incidents, such insurance coverage may be insufficient
to cover all losses and may not take into account potential loss of business or other financial harm.
Regulators worldwide continue to recognise cybersecurity as a systemic risk to financial markets and have highlighted the need for
financial institutions to improve their monitoring and control of, and resilience to, cyberattacks. A successful cyberattack may, therefore,
result in significant fines and penalties to the Barclays Bank UK Group. In addition, any new regulatory measures introduced to mitigate
these risks are likely to result in increased technology and compliance costs for the Barclays Bank UK Group.
c) New and emergent technology
Technology is fundamental to the Barclays Bank UK Group’s business and the financial services industry. Technological advancements
present opportunities to develop new and innovative ways of doing business across the Barclays Bank UK Group, with new solutions being
developed both in-house and in association with third party companies. For example, the digitalisation of payment services and securities,
as well as futures and options trading, increasingly occurring electronically, both on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s own systems and
through other alternative systems, and becoming automated.
The rapid development in AI is another area the Barclays Bank UK Group is monitoring closely. This includes the identification of potential
use cases for responsible adoption of AI in the Barclays Bank UK Group’s own operations as well as managing the salient risks and other
threats third party usage of AI may pose, including with respect to intellectual property ownership and infringement, cybersecurity,
antitrust and fraud. For example, while the Barclays Bank UK Group may use AI technologies in connection with the creation or
development of various materials, including software code, the Barclays Bank UK Group may be unable to protect such materials with
copyrights or patents given the position of courts and intellectual property offices in the United States and in some other jurisdictions that
human inventorship is required for patent protection of an AI-generated invention and human authorship is required for copyright
protection of an AI-generated work of authorship. This is still an evolving area of the law, which creates uncertainty that could impact the
Barclays Bank UK Group’s ability to obtain intellectual property protection in AI-generated inventions and works of authorship.
Introducing new forms of technology has the potential to increase inherent risk. Failure to evaluate, actively manage and closely monitor
risk during all phases of business development and implementation could introduce new vulnerabilities and security flaws and have a
material adverse effect on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.
d) Fraud
The nature of fraud is wide-ranging and continues to evolve, as criminals seek opportunities to target the Barclays Bank UK Group’s
business activities and exploit changes in customer behaviour and product and channel use (such as the increased use of digital products
and enhanced online services). Fraud attacks vary, can be highly sophisticated, and can be orchestrated by organised crime groups or
individuals. Fraudsters use various techniques to target customers and colleagues directly (i.e. third party fraud) or Barclays Bank UK Group
directly (i.e. first party fraud). In the UK, APP (Authorised Push Payment) scams are a growing fraud type where customers are deceived to
transfer funds from their accounts to bad actors. Fraud can also be committed by one or more employees and workers of an entity (i.e.
internal fraud) or may manifest as unauthorised trading fraud. The impact from fraud can lead to customer harm, financial losses to both
Barclays Bank UK Group and its customers, loss of business, missed business opportunities and reputational damage, all of which could
have a material adverse impact on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.
e) Data management, information protection and AI
The Barclays Bank UK Group holds and processes large volumes of data, including personal information, financial data and other
confidential information, and the Barclays Bank UK Group’s businesses are subject to complex and evolving laws and regulations governing

[PAGE 55]

Risk review
Material existing and emerging risks
the privacy and protection of data, including Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (the General Data Protection Regulation as it applies in the EU and
the UK). This data could relate to: (i) the Barclays Bank UK Group’s clients, customers, prospective clients and customers and their
employees; (ii) clients and customers of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s clients and customers and their employees (iii) the Barclays Bank UK
Group’s suppliers, counterparties and other external parties, and their employees; and (iv) the Group’s employees and prospective
employees. This data may also be held and processed for the Barclays Bank UK Group by third-party vendors, partners, or suppliers which
therefore exposes the Barclays Bank UK Group to risks from vulnerabilities and non-compliance in its supply chain.
Data, including personal information, is subject to external as well as internal (whether intentional or accidental) security risks. Concerns
regarding the effectiveness of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s measures to safeguard data, including personal information, or even the
perception that those measures are inadequate, could expose the Barclays Bank UK Group to the risk of loss or unavailability of data or data
integrity issues and/or cause the Barclays Bank UK Group to lose existing or potential clients and customers, and thereby reduce the
Barclays Bank UK Group’s revenues. Furthermore, any failure or perceived failure by the Barclays Bank UK Group to comply with applicable
privacy or data protection laws and regulations may subject it to potential contractual liability, claims, litigation, regulatory or other
government action (including significant regulatory fines) and require changes to certain operations or practices which could also inhibit
the Barclays Bank UK Group’s development or marketing of certain products or services, or increase the costs of offering them to
customers. Any of these events could damage the Barclays Bank UK Group’s reputation, subject the Barclays Bank UK Group to material
fines or other monetary penalties, make the Barclays Bank UK Group liable for the payment of compensatory damages, divert
management’s time and attention, lead to enhanced regulatory oversight and otherwise materially adversely affect its business, results of
operations, financial condition and prospects.
In addition, increased adoption of AI technologies, which rely on the collection of large amounts of data, including personal information,
and use of such data for training purposes, has led legislators in numerous jurisdictions to propose and adopt new laws addressing AI-
related usage of personal information and data protection authorities around the world to adopt new and evolving interpretations of
existing data protection laws in light of such technology, in both cases, imposing specific obligations with respect to the processing of
personal information, including required notices, consents and opt-outs. These obligations may be burdensome and costly to comply with
and may affect the ways in which the Barclays Bank UK Group can collect, process, or use personal information for AI technologies, thus
negatively impacting the Barclays Bank UK Group’s business. Further, there is increased risk of inadvertent disclosure of confidential
information or personal information in connection with the utilisation of AI technologies, whether through AI model errors, data breaches,
or other vulnerabilities, which may also result in stronger regulatory scrutiny, leading to legal and regulatory investigations and
enforcement actions that could negatively impact the Barclays Bank UK Group’s business, even if unfounded.
For further details on data protection regulation applicable to the Barclays Bank UK Group, refer to the supervision and regulation section.
f) Processing errors
The Barclays Bank UK Group’s businesses are highly dependent on its ability to process and monitor, on a daily basis, a very large number
of transactions, many of which are complex and occur at high volumes and frequencies. Given Barclays Bank UK Group’s diverse customer
base and the increase in volume, speed, frequency and complexity of transactions, developing, maintaining and upgrading operational
systems and infrastructure becomes more challenging. The risk of systems or human error, including errors produced through the
integration of AI technologies, in connection with such transactions increases with these developments, as well as the potential
consequences of such errors due to the speed and volume of transactions involved and the potential difficulty associated with discovering
errors quickly enough to limit the resulting consequences. As the Barclays Bank UK Group works to implement AI technologies into the
Barclays Bank UK Group’s product and service offerings, these challenges may become more significant, as AI technologies give rise to risk
of bias, errors and hallucinations which may impact the Barclays Bank UK Group’s ability to accurately execute, track or report transactions.
There can be no assurances that AI usage will enhance the Barclays Bank UK Group’s product or services offerings, and any such errors or
inaccuracies resulting from AI usage could result in competitive or reputational harm or increased legal liability. Furthermore, events that
are wholly or partially beyond the Barclays Bank UK Group’s control, such as a spike in transaction volume, could adversely affect the
Barclays Bank UK Group’s ability to process transactions or provide banking and payment services.
Processing errors could result in the Barclays Bank UK Group, among other things: (i) failing to provide information, services and liquidity to
clients and counterparties in a timely manner; (ii) failing to settle and/or confirm transactions; (iii) causing funds transfers and/or other
transactions to be executed erroneously, illegally or with unintended consequences; and (iv) adversely affecting financial markets. Any of
these events could materially disadvantage the Barclays Bank UK Group’s customers, clients and counterparties (including them suffering
financial loss) and/or result in a loss of confidence in the Barclays Bank UK Group which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on
the Barclays Bank UK Group’s business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Any of these events could also lead to
breaches of laws, rules or regulations and, hence, regulatory enforcement actions, which could result in significant financial loss, imposition
of additional capital requirements, enhanced regulatory supervision and reputational damage.
g) Supplier exposure
The Barclays Bank UK Group depends on suppliers for the provision of many of its services and the development of technology, including AI
technology. Whilst the Barclays Bank UK Group depends on suppliers, it remains fully accountable to its customers and clients for risks
arising from the actions of suppliers and may not be able to recover from its suppliers any amounts paid to customers and clients for losses
suffered by them. The dependency on suppliers and sub-contracting of outsourced services introduces concentration risk where the failure
of specific suppliers could have an impact on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s ability to continue to provide material services to its customers.
In addition, the use of third party AI technologies may also expose the Barclays Bank UK Group to third party infringement or
misappropriation claims, as well as privacy and data protection related claims, as it can be very difficult, if not impossible, to validate the
processes used by third-party AI technology providers in their collection and use of data in developing and training AI technologies or the
conversion of inputs to outputs. Failure to adequately manage supplier risk could have a material adverse effect on the Barclays Bank UK
Group’s business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.

[PAGE 56]

Risk review
Material existing and emerging risks
h) Estimates and judgements relating to critical accounting policies and regulatory disclosures
The preparation of financial statements requires the application of accounting policies and judgements to be made in accordance with
IFRS. Regulatory returns and capital disclosures are prepared in accordance with the relevant capital reporting and liquidity requirements
and also require assumptions and estimates to be made. The key areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas
where assumptions are significant to the consolidated and individual financial statements and regulatory returns and disclosures, include
credit impairment provisions fair value of financial instruments, goodwill and intangible assets, the calculation of RWAs, capital and
liquidity metrics, and provisions including conduct and legal, competition and regulatory matters (please refer to the notes to the audited
financial statements for further details). There is a risk that if the judgement exercised, or the estimates or assumptions used, subsequently
turn out to be incorrect or are altered as a result of assurance work or subsequent feedback from the Barclays Bank UK Group’s regulators,
this could result in material losses to the Barclays Bank UK Group, beyond what was anticipated or provided for, including as a result of
changes to treatments or stated capital or liquidity in regulatory returns and capital and liquidity disclosures. If capital and liquidity
requirements are not met as a result of changes in interpretation, compliance with the Barclays Bank UK Group’s distribution policy could
be impacted and/or additional measures may be required to strengthen the Barclays Bank UK Group’s capital or leverage position, which
may also lead to the Barclays Bank UK Group’s inability to achieve stated targets. Further development of accounting standards and
regulatory interpretations could also materially impact the Barclays Bank UK Group’s results of operations, financial condition and
prospects.
i) Tax risk
The Barclays Bank UK Group is required to comply with the tax laws and practice of all countries in which it has business operations. There
is a risk that the Barclays Bank UK Group could suffer losses due to additional tax charges, other financial costs or reputational damage as a
result of failing to comply with such laws and practice (including where the Barclays Bank UK Group’s interpretation of such laws differs
from the interpretation of tax authorities), or by failing to manage its tax affairs in an appropriate manner. In addition, increasing tax
authority focus on customer tax reporting requirements for UK and international customers and the digitalisation of the administration of
tax has potential to increase the Barclays Bank UK Group’s tax compliance obligations further. In 2023, the UK Government enacted
legislation on the OECD Inclusive Framework on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting Pillar Two Framework introducing a global minimum tax
rate of 15%. The UK’s Pillar Two rules applied from 1 January 2024 and increased the Barclays Bank UK Group's tax compliance obligations.
This tax regime requires systems and process changes that introduce potential additional operational risks.
j) Ability to hire and retain appropriately qualified employees
As a regulated financial institution, the Barclays Bank UK Group requires diversified and specialist skilled colleagues. The Barclays Bank UK
Group’s ability to attract, develop and retain a diverse mix of talent is key to the delivery of its core business activity and strategy. This is
impacted by a range of external and internal factors, such as macroeconomic factors, labour, immigration and related policies in the
jurisdiction in which the Barclays Bank UK Group operates, and regulatory limits on compensation for senior executives. Failure to attract or
prevent the departure of appropriately qualified and skilled employees could have a material adverse effect on the Barclays Bank UK
Group’s business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Additionally, this may result in disruption to service which could
in turn lead to customer harm and reputational damage.
For further details on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s approach to operational risk, refer to the operational risk management and operational
risk performance sections.
v) Model risk
Model risk is the potential for adverse consequences from decisions based on incorrect or misused model outputs and reports. The
Barclays Bank UK Group relies on models to support a broad range of business and risk management activities, including informing
business decisions and strategies, measuring and limiting risk, valuing exposures (including the calculation of impairment), conducting
stress testing, calculating RWAs and assessing capital adequacy, supporting new business acceptance, risk and reward evaluation,
managing client assets, and meeting reporting requirements.
Models are imperfect representations of reality as they rely on simplifying assumptions; as such they are subject to intrinsic uncertainty as
well as errors and inappropriate use. This may be exacerbated when dealing with unprecedented scenarios, as was the case during the
COVID-19 pandemic, when simplifying assumptions were required due to the lack of reliable historical reference points and data. Model
uncertainty, errors and inappropriate use may result in (among other things) the Barclays Bank UK Group making inappropriate business
decisions and/or inaccuracies or errors in the Barclays Bank UK Group's risk management and regulatory reporting processes. This could
result in a significant financial loss, imposition of additional capital requirements, enhanced regulatory supervision and reputational
damage, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s business, results of operations, financial
condition and prospects.
For further details on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s approach to model risk, refer to the model risk management and model risk
performance sections.
vi) Compliance Risk
Compliance Risk is the risk of poor outcomes for, or harm to, customers, clients and markets, arising from the delivery of the Barclays Bank
UK’s products and services (conduct risk) and the risk to Barclays Bank UK Group, its clients, customers or markets from a failure to comply
with the laws, rules and regulations (LRR) applicable to the firm (LRR risk). This risk could manifest itself in a variety of ways, including:

[PAGE 57]

Risk review
Material existing and emerging risks
a) Market conduct
The Barclays Bank UK businesses are exposed to risk from potential non-compliance with its policies and standards (which incorporates
regulatory requirements set by law and the Barclays Bank UK Group’s regulators) and instances of wilful and negligent misconduct by
employees, all of which could result in potential customer and client harm, enforcement action (including regulatory fines and/or
sanctions), increased operation and compliance costs, redress or remediation or reputational damage which in turn could have a material
adverse effect on the Barclays Bank UK business, financial condition and prospects. Examples of employee misconduct which could have a
material adverse effect on the Barclays Bank UK business include: (i) improperly selling or marketing the Barclays Bank UK products and
services; (ii) engaging in insider trading, market manipulation or anti-competitive or collusive behaviour (iii) misappropriating confidential
or proprietary information belonging to Barclays Bank UK, its customers or third parties. These risks may be exacerbated in circumstances
where the Barclays Bank UK is unable to rely on physical oversight and supervision of employees, noting the move to a hybrid working
model for many colleagues.
b) Customer protection
The Barclays Bank UK must ensure that its customers, particularly those that are vulnerable, are able to make well-informed decisions on
how best to use the Barclays Bank UK financial services and understand the protection available to them if something goes wrong. Poor
customer outcomes can result from the failure to: (i) communicate fairly and clearly with customers; (ii) provide services in a timely and fair
manner; (iii) handle and protect customer data appropriately; (iv) undertake appropriate activity to address customer harm, including the
adherence to regulatory and legal requirements on complaint handling: and (v) provide fair value for the product. Barclays Bank UK is at
risk of financial loss and reputational damage, and also at risk of regulatory censure or enforcement action resulting from failure to manage
and oversee customer outcomes and fully embed compliance with Consumer Duty requirements.
c) Product design and review risk
Products and services must meet the needs of clients, customers, markets and the Barclays Bank UK throughout their life cycle. However,
there is a risk that the design and review of the Barclays Bank UK’s products and services fail to reasonably consider and address potential
or actual negative outcomes for customers, which may result in customer harm, enforcement action (including regulatory fines and/or
sanctions), redress and remediation and reputational damage. Both the design and review of products and services are a key area of focus
for regulators and the Barclays Bank UK.
d) Conflicts of interest
Identifying and managing conflicts of interest is fundamental to the conduct of Barclays Bank UK business, relationships with customers,
and the markets in which the Barclays Bank UK operates. Understanding the conflicts of interest that impact or potentially impact the
Barclays Bank UK enables them to be identified, managed and mitigated appropriately. Even if there is no evidence of improper actions, a
conflict of interest can create an appearance of impropriety that undermines confidence in the Barclays Bank UK Group and its employees.
If the Barclays Bank UK does not identify and manage conflicts of interest (business or personal) appropriately, it could have an adverse
effect on the Barclays Bank UK’s business, customers and the markets within which it operates.
e) Regulatory focus on culture and accountability
Regulators around the world continue to emphasise the importance of culture and personal accountability and enforce the adoption of
adequate internal reporting and whistleblowing procedures to help to promote appropriate conduct and drive positive outcomes for
customers, colleagues, clients and markets. The requirements and expectations of the UK Senior Managers Regime, Certification Regime
and Conduct Rules reinforce additional accountabilities for individuals across the Barclays Bank UK with an increased focus on governance
and rigour. Failure to meet these requirements and expectations may lead to regulatory sanctions, both for the individuals and the Barclays
Bank UK.
f) Laws, rules and regulations
Barclays is subject to a range of laws, rules and regulations. A failure to comply with these may have an adverse effect on the Barclays Bank
UK’s business, customers and the markets within which it operates and could result in reputational damage, penalties, damages or fines.
For further details on the Barclays Bank UK’s approach to Compliance Risk, refer to the compliance risk management and compliance risk
performance sections.
vii)Reputation risk
Reputation risk is the risk that an action, transaction, investment, event, decision or business relationship will reduce trust in the Barclays
Bank UK Group’s integrity and/or competence.
Any material lapse in standards of integrity, compliance, customer service or operating efficiency may represent a potential reputation risk.
Stakeholder expectations constantly evolve, and so reputation risk is dynamic and varies between geographical regions, groups and
individuals. A risk arising in one business area can have an adverse effect upon the Barclays Bank UK Group’s overall reputation and any
one transaction, investment or event (in the perception of key stakeholders) can reduce trust in the Barclays Bank UK Group’s integrity and
competence. The Barclays Bank UK Group’s association with sensitive topics and sectors has been, and in some instances continues to be,
an area of concern for stakeholders, including: (i) the financing of, and investments in, businesses which operate in sectors that are
sensitive because of their relative carbon intensity or local environmental impact; (ii) potential association with human rights violations

[PAGE 58]

Risk review
Material existing and emerging risks
(including combating modern slavery) in the Barclays Bank UK Group’s operations or supply chain and by clients and customers; and (iii)
the financing of businesses which manufacture and export military and riot control goods and services.
Reputation risk could also arise from negative public opinion about the actual, or perceived, manner in which the Barclays Bank UK Group
(including its employees, clients and other associations) conducts its business activities, or the Barclays Bank UK Group’s financial
performance, as well as actual or perceived practices in banking and the financial services industry generally. Modern technologies, in
particular online social media channels and other broadcast tools that facilitate communication with large audiences in short time frames
and with minimal costs, may significantly enhance and accelerate the distribution and effect of damaging information and allegations.
Negative public opinion may adversely affect the Barclays Bank UK Group’s ability to retain and attract customers, in particular, corporate
and retail depositors, and to retain and motivate staff. It could also have a material adverse effect on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s
business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Claims of potential greenwashing arising from sustainability-related
statements made by the Barclays Group may also give rise to reputation risk.
In addition to the above, reputation risk has the potential to arise from operational issues or conduct matters which cause harm to
customers, clients, market integrity, effective competition or the Barclays Bank UK Group (refer to ‘iv) Operational risk’ above).
For further details on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s approach to reputation risk, refer to the reputation risk management and reputation
risk performance sections.
viii)Legal risk and legal, competition and regulatory matters
The Barclays Bank UK Group conducts diverse activities in a highly regulated global market which exposes it and its employees to legal risk
arising from: (i) the multitude of laws, rules and regulations that apply to the activities it undertakes, which are highly dynamic and may be
unclear in their application to particular circumstances especially in new and emerging areas; and (ii) the diversified and evolving nature of
the Barclays Bank UK Group’s businesses and business practices. In each case, this exposes the Barclays Bank UK Group and its employees
to the risk of loss or the imposition of penalties, damages or fines from the failure of members of the Barclays Bank UK Group to meet
applicable laws, rules, regulations or contractual requirements or to assert or defend their intellectual property rights. Legal risk may arise in
relation to any number of the material existing and emerging risks identified above.
A breach of applicable laws, rules and/or regulations by the Barclays Bank UK Group or its employees could result in criminal prosecution,
regulatory censure, potentially significant fines, remedial orders and other sanctions. Where clients, customers or other third parties are
harmed by the Barclays Bank UK Group’s conduct, this may also give rise to civil legal proceedings, including class actions. Other legal
disputes may also arise between the Barclays Bank UK Group and third parties relating to matters such as breaches or enforcement of legal
rights or obligations arising under contracts, statutes or common law. Adverse findings in any such matters may result in the Barclays Bank
UK Group being liable to third parties or may result in the Barclays Bank UK Group’s rights not being enforced or not being enforced in the
manner intended or desired by the Barclays Bank UK Group.
Although the Barclays Bank UK Group never operated in the motor finance market in the UK, the wider financial industry may be impacted
by the October 2024 Court of Appeal judgments on commission arrangements in the motor finance industry, subject to the result of the
appeals of those judgments to the Supreme Court, and to the FCA’s ongoing review of the motor finance market. In December 2024, the
FCA announced an extension to the time motor finance firms have to handle complaints on lender commissions until after 4 December
2025, following on from the Court of Appeal’s judgments in Johnson v FirstRand Bank, Wrench v FirstRand Bank and Hopcroft v Close
Brothers Ltd [2024] EWCA Civ 1282. The decisions in these cases could, subject to these appeals, impact the availability and terms of
financing, risk of future claims, and likelihood of a FCA consumer redress scheme. There could also be wider market and industry
implications of the judgments and/or the appeals, which could adversely affect the Barclays Bank UK Group’s business, results of
operations, financial condition and prospects.
Further details of legal, competition and regulatory matters to which the Barclays Bank UK Group is currently exposed are set out in Note
24. In addition to matters specifically described in Note 24, the Barclays Bank UK Group is engaged in various other legal proceedings which
arise in the ordinary course of business. The Barclays Bank UK Group is also subject to requests for information, investigations and other
reviews (including skilled person reviews) by regulators, governmental and other public bodies. These may be in connection with business
activities in which the Barclays Bank UK Group is, or has been, engaged, or areas of particular regulatory focus, such as financial crime,
money laundering or terrorist financing. The Barclays Bank UK Group may also (from time to time) be subject to claims and/or legal
proceedings and other investigations relating to financial and non-financial disclosures made by members of the Barclays Bank UK Group
(including, but not limited to, regulatory capital and liquidity reporting and ESG disclosures). Additionally, due to the increasing number of
new climate and sustainability-related laws and regulations, growing demand from investors and customers for sustainable products and
services, and regulatory and NGO scrutiny, financial institutions, including the Barclays Bank UK Group, may through their business
activities face increasing litigation, conduct, enforcement and contract liability risks related to climate change, environmental degradation
and other social, governance and sustainability-related issues. In particular, there has been an increasing focus on greenwashing risk this
year. Certain stakeholders have taken legal action (including under “soft law” mechanisms) against the Barclays Bank UK Group, and others
(including regulators, campaign groups and customers) may decide to do so in the future for allegedly financing or contributing to climate
change, environmental degradation and other social, governance and sustainability-related issues, or because the Barclays Bank UK
Group's response to climate change or other ESG factors is perceived to be ineffective, insufficient or inappropriate, including relative to the
Barclays Bank UK Group's stated ambitions. Furthermore, there are laws and regulatory processes and policies seeking to restrict or prohibit
doing certain business with entities identified as "boycotting" or "discriminating" against particular industries or considering ESG factors in
their investment processes, including to protect the energy and other high carbon sectors from any risks of divestment or challenges in
accessing finance.
The outcome of legal, competition and regulatory matters, both those to which the Barclays Bank UK Group is currently exposed and any
others which may arise in the future, is difficult to predict (and any provision made in the Barclays Bank UK Group’s financial statements

[PAGE 59]

Risk review
Material existing and emerging risks
relating to those matters may not be sufficient to cover actual losses). In connection with such matters, the Barclays Bank UK Group may
incur significant expense, regardless of the ultimate outcome, and any such matters could expose the Barclays Bank UK Group to any of the
following outcomes: substantial monetary damages, settlements and/or fines; remediation of affected customers and clients; other
penalties and injunctive relief; additional litigation; criminal prosecution; the loss of any existing agreed protection from prosecution;
regulatory restrictions on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s business operations including the withdrawal of authorisations; increased
regulatory compliance requirements or changes to laws or regulations; suspension of operations; public reprimands or censure; loss of
significant assets or business; a negative effect on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s reputation; loss of confidence by investors, counterparties,
clients and/or customers; risk of credit rating agency downgrades; potential negative impact on the availability and/or cost of funding and
liquidity; and/or dismissal or resignation of key individuals. In light of the uncertainties involved in legal, competition and regulatory
matters, there can be no assurance that the outcome of a particular matter or matters (including formerly active matters or those arising
financial condition and prospects.
ix) Financial crime risk
Financial crime risk is the risk that the Barclays Bank UK Group and its associated persons (employees or third parties) commit or facilitate
financial crime, and/or the Barclays Bank UK Group’s products and services are used to facilitate financial crime.
Financial crime is categorised into four areas of risk, relating to, bribery & corruption, money laundering & terrorist financing, tax evasion
facilitation and sanctions, including proliferation financing. The Barclays Bank UK Group is subject to numerous laws and regulations
governing these areas, including certain “failure to prevent” offences whereby the Barclays Bank UK Group may be liable for failure to
prevent crimes carried out by persons associated with it.
Bribery and corruption occur where a person improperly obtains or retains business, improperly secures a business or personal advantage
and induces another person to perform their role in breach of an expectation of good faith, impartiality, or trust. Risks related to bribery and
corruption may arise for the Barclays Bank UK Group in connection with (i) employees/prospective employees who have connections to
external stakeholders, Politically Exposed Persons, or public officials; (ii) different types of payments and expenses such as facilitation
payment requests, gifts and entertainment, charitable donations, commercial sponsorships and political donations; (iii) certain types of
funding provided to customers with increased exposure to public officials; (iv) third parties who are engaged by the Barclays Bank UK
Group to win or retain business; (v) the Barclays Bank UK Group’s proprietary investments, joint ventures and mergers and acquisition or
(vi) suppliers who act for and on behalf of the Barclays Bank UK Group.
Money laundering and terrorist financing have been identified as major threats to the international financial services community and
therefore to the Barclays Bank UK Group. The Barclays Bank UK Group must comply globally with UK legislation designed to prevent, detect
and disrupt money laundering and to combat terrorism. As a transatlantic bank, the Barclays Group also takes into account European
Union (EU) and United States (US) Anti-Money Laundering and Counter Terrorist Financing requirements, as well as guidance issued by
bodies such as the Wolfsberg Group and the European Banking Authority.
Tax evasion is a financial crime and a predicate offence to money laundering in the UK and in many other countries in which we operate.
The Barclays Bank UK Group may be exposed to risks associated with tax evasion by virtue of its interactions with customers and clients or
in connection with employees or third parties acting on our behalf.
As a global financial institution, the Barclays Bank UK Group must comply with applicable sanctions laws and regulations in every
jurisdiction in which it operates, or which apply to it because of its place of incorporation. Sanctions restrict activities with targeted
countries, governments, entities, individuals, and industries.
The laws and regulations associated with financial crime risks can have broad application and, in certain circumstances, may have
extraterritorial application. Failure to appropriately manage the risks associated with these four areas undermines market integrity and may
result in harm to the Barclays Bank UK Group’s clients, customers, counterparties or employees, diminished confidence in financial
products and services, damage to the Barclays Bank UK Group's reputation, regulatory breaches and/or financial penalties.

[PAGE 60]

Risk review
Principal risk management
Climate risk management
In Barclays’ Climate Risk Framework, Climate Risk is defined as the risk of financial losses arising from climate change, through physical
risks and risks associated with transitioning to a lower carbon economy.
Physical risk: is defined as the risk of financial losses related to physical impacts of a changing climate. Physical risks can be event driven
(acute risks), including increased frequency and/or severity of extreme weather events such as cyclones, hurricanes and flood. Longer
term shifts in climate patterns (chronic risks) arise from sustained higher temperatures that may cause rises in sea levels, rising mean
temperatures and more severe weather events such as increased occurrence of floods or fires.
Transition risk: is defined as the risk of financial losses caused by extensive policy, legal, technology and market changes to address
mitigation and adaptation requirements related to climate change.
Overview
The physical and transition risks of climate change have the potential to drive other Principal Risks. For Barclays Bank UK Group, the
impacts of climate risks are most pronounced in our ‘elevated’ portfolios, UK Mortgages and Business Banking Agriculture, through credit
risk. These portfolios are therefore the primary focus for scenario analysis and carbon modelling within Barclays Bank UK Group. In the UK
Mortgages portfolio this could materialise as impacts to affordability (i.e. through damage caused by flooding, or high insurance
premiums) and devaluation of house prices (i.e. due to poor energy efficiency). Within Business Banking Agriculture, physical risks have the
potential to drive declines in yield, whilst transition risks such as emissions taxation have the potential to increase costs, both impacting
profitability.
Given the significance of climate change, and to support the Barclays Group’s ambition to be a net zero bank by 2050, Climate Risk is a
Principal Risk under Barclays’ ERMF.
The Barclays Group has developed a Climate Risk Framework (CRF) for financial and operational risks stemming from climate change. This
enables Barclays to foster a consistent approach for managing climate risk across the firm. The key principle underpinning this framework
is that climate risk is recognised as a driver of other existing financial (Credit, Market, Treasury and Capital) and non-financial (including
Operational) risks, and not treated as a standalone risk type. The CRF is supported by policies, standards and other relevant guidelines
which contain control objectives that must be met.
The Climate Risk Framework:
• Includes definitions and descriptions for climate risk
• Includes key principles for the identification, measurement, monitoring and reporting of climate risk
• Outlines the approach to setting risk appetite for climate risk
• Outlines roles and responsibilities applicable to the Climate Risk Framework
The Climate Risk Policy sets out high level requirements and control objectives to address key principles articulated in the CRF. The Climate
Risk Standard sets out control requirements for implementing control objectives defined within the Climate Risk Policy. Climate risk
considerations have also been incorporated as applicable to the frameworks of other principal risks.
The Climate Risk Framework, Climate Risk Policy and Climate Risk Standard are applicable for Barclays' business activities, with a focus on
lending, capital markets and investments. Barclays’ approach to managing climate risk focuses on the effective, identification, prioritisation
and mitigation of the material climate risks with Barclays’ portfolios. The approach is customised to reflect portfolio characteristics, size and
exposure to specific climate risk drivers within various portfolios.
Climate risk may also drive non-financial risks such as reputational risk, which continue to be managed under their respective risk
frameworks.
To implement its Climate Risk Framework, Barclays continuously implements new processes, tools, models and data repository as
applicable whilst also enhancing its existing ones. The Group regularly reviews its approach and practices for alignment with regulatory
developments and leading practices for climate risk.
Organisation, Roles & Responsibilities
The Barclays Group Head of Climate Risk is the Principal Risk owner accountable for the management and oversight of the climate risk
profile. The Barclays Group Head of Climate Risk reports directly to Group CRO.
On behalf of the Board, the BRC reviews and approves the Group's approach to managing Climate Risk.

[PAGE 61]

Risk review
Principal risk management
The Head of Barclays Bank UK Climate Risk chairs the Barclays UK Climate Risk Forum. The Barclays UK Climate Risk Forum oversees the
management of climate risk within Barclays Bank UK Group and undertakes duties such as recommending climate risk mandates and
limits, monitoring the Barclays Bank UK Group climate risk profile, adherence with risk appetite, and considering emerging risks or expected
trends pertaining to Barclays Bank UK Group elevated and non-elevated sectors. The Barclays UK Climate Risk Forum also monitors
physical and transition risk exposure and reviews risk measurement developments in relation to risk appetite, stress testing, scenario
analysis and stress loss quantification. The Barclays UK Climate Risk Forum escalates to the Barclays UK Risk Committee and also to the
Barclays Group Climate Risk Committee (CRC). The Barclays UK Sustainability Oversight Forum was introduced in 2024 to formalise second
line oversight of the first line’s sustainability strategy and ensure review and challenge of the Barclays UK business’ integration of Climate
Risk.
Reputation risk driven by climate change is managed by the reputation risk principal risk.
Board Risk Committee (BRC) Board Sustainability Committee (BSC)
Governance
Group Risk Committee (GRC) Group Sustainability Committee (GSC)
Credit, market, treasury & capital and Sustainability matters and reputation risk
Risk
operational risks associated with climate change
A control environment for Climate Risk has been established in alignment with Barclays Control Framework. The Climate Risk Control
Forum (CRCF) oversees the implementation and operation of the Barclays Control Framework, including reviewing risk events, policy and
issues management. Additionally, Climate Risk assurance groups are responsible for performing climate risk specific reviews to support the
embedding of the Climate Risk Framework.
Risk Appetite
Barclays’ approach to setting risk appetite for climate risk is aligned to its ambition to be a net zero bank by 2050 and reducing financed
emissions in line with 2030 financed emissions targets. Barclays has established a risk appetite for climate risk at the Group level. The
climate risk considerations have been included in the qualitative statements and quantitative constraints. This is reviewed and revised
(where applicable) annually and formally approved by the Board.
Climate risk appetite is managed through limits, triggers and indicators set across different Principal Risks (including Credit Risk, Market
Risk and Treasury & Capital Risk), portfolios, sectors, assets classes and products. Barclays has progressively enhanced its approach for the
quantification of climate risk appetite by implementing additional risk limits and triggers. Regular monitoring, reporting and governance
provide oversight so that exposures remain within the appetite and corrective actions are taken to address any breaches or excesses. The
Group continues to regularly review its risk appetite and makes enhancements to maintain alignment with the Group's strategic objectives
as part of its business planning process. The Climate Risk Appetite Constraint requires that financed emissions are managed in line with
disclosed targets. Barclays Bank UK came into scope of the Climate Risk Appetite Constraint in Q1 2024 following the announcement of the
BlueTrack Dairy and Livestock sector financed emissions target. Barclays Bank UK were tested against, and passed, the Climate Risk
Appetite Constraint in late 2024. Alongside regular monitoring of the Dairy & Livestock sector’s financed emissions, Barclays Bank UK has
introduced key risk indicators and limits to manage risk and track progress towards our targets.

[PAGE 62]

Risk review
Principal risk management
Risk Identification
Physical and transition risk drivers can lead to adverse financial impacts through various transmission channels. Transmission channels are
causal chains that explain how climate risk drivers impact firms such as the Barclays Bank Group, either directly through their own
operations and infrastructure or indirectly through their financing and investment activities. Through these transmission channels, risks for
Barclays may materialise in its traditional risk categories such as credit risk, market risk, treasury and capital risk, and operational risk. The
impact of climate risk drivers may be significant and widespread, affecting companies, households and the general economy leading to
potential financial system contagion.
Barclays' work on assessing climate-related risks have been focused on the short (0-1 year) and medium term (1-5 years) horizons, in line
with our financial planning cycle. The longer-term climate (> 5years) risks have been considered using both quantitative approaches, such
as reverse stress testing, and qualitative analysis. The effects of climate risk drivers through macro and micro transmissions channels are
observed in Barclays' portfolio through traditional risk categories such as credit risk, market risk, treasury and capital risk, operational risk
(including legal risk). The below table provides examples of how Barclays' Climate Risk framework considers potential key effects of
climate risk drivers on Barclays' Principal Risk types.
Principal risk Example effects of climate risk drivers
Credit risk A changing climate (i.e. more frequent and more intense physical hazards) and society’s response (i.e.
increased transition factors such as new policies or technologies to reduce carbon emissions) impacts
Credit Risk. The impact on Credit Risk relates to the failure of clients, customers or counterparties to meet
their obligations as a result of physical and transition risks, which may lead to potential losses and/or
exposures outside the bank risk appetite in retail and wholesale credit portfolios. Climate change can drive
direct impacts such as damage to fixed assets from physical hazards, leading to changes in output and
increased costs. Indirect impacts may include material disruptions to supply chains and shifting demand for
goods and services. Transition factors such as low-carbon policies or technologies could also change the
value and creditworthiness of counterparties clients and customers.
Market risk The impact on Market Risk relates to potential adverse changes in the value of the firm's assets and liabilities
from fluctuations in market variables as a result of physical and transition risks, which may lead to potential
losses due to changes in equity and commodity prices and credit spreads. Either physical hazards or
transition risk factors have the potential to trigger large, sudden and negative price adjustments where
climate risk has not yet been incorporated into prices, driving additional Market Risk. Fluctuations in
markets and prices in susceptible sectors or countries could drive losses to the value of the Bank’s assets
and liabilities.
Treasury & capital risk The impact on Treasury & Capital Risk relates to the impact on the capital requirements and liquidity
funding requirements as a result of physical and transition risks, which may lead to changes in capital plans,
funding plan requirements, asset and liabilities management (ALM) and exposures to changes in interest
rates. Climate events can drive Treasury & Capital Risk as counterparties draw down deposits and credit
lines. Physical hazards, or transition factors could lead to increased volatility which could in turn change the
value of investments and drive changes to funding requirements and accessibility, capital planning, capital
requirements, or hedging methodologies.
Operational risk Physical hazards and transition risk factors can lead to impacts on the firm’s own operations including
damage or unsuitability of premises, disruption to business operations and supply chain and ability to
recover from outages (e.g. caused by workforce, technology and third-party service providers). For example,
extreme weather events can impact the operation of bank offices, branches, and support facilities such as
data centres. The transition to a low-carbon economy can lead to changes in operational processes, for
example to mitigate climate impacts we need to decarbonise our buildings or requirements to achieve more
carbon efficient buildings. Transition risks can also drive secondary impacts on operational risks such as the
risk of misreporting as a result of enhanced regulatory disclosures requirements, or physical security
breaches and branch closures as a result of protests related to Barclays’ lending activities.
Barclays’ climate risk identification includes monitoring of the external environment including regulatory developments, climate-related
litigations and market developments for identifying climate risk drivers that could affect Barclays Bank UK Group’s portfolios. In addition to
horizon scanning, Barclays has also developed processes to identify sectors which other Principal Risks must prioritise for further analysis
and risk management activities. Following this assessment, the industry sectors that are highly exposed to climate risks are deemed to be
of elevated risk. These assessments are regularly reviewed and benchmarked against external studies and research and incorporate inputs
from the subject matter experts.
In the UK Retail and Business Banking portfolios, Barclays is using both internal and external data sources to identify portfolio segments
that are vulnerable to subsidence and flood risks. Additionally, Energy Performance Certificate (EPC) ratings have been identified for
portfolios that are particularly vulnerable to transition risk. Methodology and breakdown of exposure to these risks is available on page 71.
Risk Assessment
The Barclays Bank UK Group uses its Risk Register process to assess the potential effects of climate risk drivers on its portfolios. The
Barclays Bank UK Group Risk Register contains key risks that may impact forward-looking business plans across Barclays Bank UK Group.
The materiality of climate risks is derived either quantitatively (typically based on stress testing) or through qualitative estimations. The
potential impact is evaluated based on adverse but plausible scenario. The Barclays Bank UK Risk Register is refreshed on at least an annual
basis and is subsequently used to support strategic planning, risk management, scenario design, sensitivity analysis and capital adequacy
assessments.

[PAGE 63]

Risk review
Principal risk management
Barclays Bank UK has enhanced its approach to engaging with clients on climate risk, through developing a Client Transition Tool, which is
a data set compiled for Barclays Bank UK Business Banking clients in Dairy & Cattle sectors for all new or refinanced lending to assess
transition trajectories against Barclays’ targets and benchmarks. Barclays Bank UK also implemented an enhanced Climate & Environment
Lens questionnaire for clients in elevated climate risk sectors.
Across Barclays' portfolios, scenario analysis continues to form a key part of the Group’s approach to assessing and quantifying the impact
of climate change. In 2024, Barclays Bank UK Group was included in the Internal Stress Test, a single scenario was designed to assess
Barclays' financial resiliency to both climate and traditional macroeconomic risk– and the extent to which Barclays would remain within risk
appetite. Additionally, Climate factors were incorporated into a climate-based Reverse Stress Test (RST). The climate-based RST assessed
both transition and physical climate risks, over a longer term horizon to understand the impact from more extreme tail events, and better
understand the plausible triggers that could lead to these events unfolding sooner, or that Barclays Bank UK Group should monitor to
prevent such losses. For further detail on scenario analysis, please see the Scenario Analysis section of the Climate and Sustainability report,
Client Level Assessment
At a client level, the Climate & Environment Lens questionnaire is used to evaluate physical, transition and environmental risks associated
with the firms operating in elevated risk sectors. During 2024, the evaluation method and the scoring criteria associated with the Climate &
Environment Lens has been enhanced to deliver more accurate and improved materiality assessments. The questionnaire is completed by
the Barclays Bank UK banking teams, with data collected from conversations with clients. Each question is rated as Low, Moderate or High
based on the client’s exposure and vulnerability to various climate and environmental risk factors. The final rating is based on scoring from
all questions but not mechanically linked to them.
The Agriculture Net Zero Forum was established to review all new lending or refinancing requests over a certain threshold from clients in
the Dairy and Cattle sectors. The review is focused on the clients’ plans to adapt and transition to a low-carbon economy and a
recommendation is made for further lending decisions. As of 2024, it is a requirement that the Client Transition Tool form is completed for
clients in Dairy & Cattle sectors for all new or refinanced lending. This allows Barclays Bank UK Group to enhance our understanding of the
transition risk profiles of clients in these sectors.
Capital & Liquidity Risk Assessment
For Treasury and Capital Risk (TCR), climate risk considerations have also been incorporated into the Internal Capital Adequacy
Assessment Process (ICAAP) and Liquidity Adequacy assessment Process (ILAAP). Barclays has integrated climate risk variables and
climate stress scenarios in the Group-wide internal stress testing framework to understand and quantify potential impact on Barclays'
capital position. For liquidity risk, the assessment is informed by the application of industry and country classifications and evaluated using
internal stress testing and portfolio specific analysis to determine material areas of risk (e.g. by asset class or product type) that could
impact funding and liquidity ratios. For Pension Risk, key risk indicators based on the impact of physical and transition risk drivers on the
pension fund have been defined. These are reviewed and monitored on a quarterly basis.
Operational Risk Assessment
For operational risk, climate-related risks continue to be assessed as part of existing business-as-usual operational risk processes. This
includes working with Premises and Operational Recovery Planning teams to evaluate and respond to climate-related impacts and
regulatory requirements. Climate factors have been integrated into Structured Scenario Assessments, which capture extreme but plausible
operational tail risks.
Risk Monitoring and Reporting
Barclays' monitoring approach for climate risk is designed to track climate-related exposures across portfolios, leveraging risk metrics,
latest insights and periodic assessments for alignment with risk appetite and climate goals.
Mandate & scale
Mandate & scale exposure controls translate risk appetite into a detailed series of limits to control day-to-day risk taking. Barclays has
implemented climate-aware limits and controls for priority sectors, including BlueTrack™ measures of emissions intensity. For Barclays
Bank UK Group, physical and transition risk mandates are in place for the UK Mortgages and Business Banking Agriculture portfolios.
Barclays UK Climate Risk Dashboard
The Barclays UK Climate Risk Dashboard contains quantitative metrics on the climate risk profile of Barclays Bank UK Group portfolios. The
Barclays UK Climate Risk Dashboard is reviewed at the Barclays UK Climate Risk Forum & Barclays UK Risk Committee on a quarterly basis.
This is used to inform progress against sector targets, current exposure to portfolios with high physical and transition risks, concentrations,
trends across industry sectors, portfolios and regions. As of 2024, the Barclays UK Concentration Risk Framework was introduced to
provide enhanced granularity of Barclays Bank UK Group’s climate risk profile. The Concentration Risk Framework is reviewed at the
Barclays UK Climate Risk Forum on a quarterly basis. For further detail on this, see climate risk Performance.

[PAGE 64]

Risk review
Principal risk management
Credit risk management (audited)
The risk of loss to the Barclays Bank UK Group from the failure of clients, customers or counterparties, including sovereigns, to fully
honour their obligations to the Barclays Bank UK Group including the whole and timely payment of principal, interest, collateral and other
receivables.
Overview
The credit risk that the Barclays Bank UK Group faces arises from retail and wholesale loans and advances together with the counterparty
credit risk arising from derivative contracts with market counterparties; trading activities, including: debt securities, settlement balances
with market counterparties, Fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI) assets and reverse repurchase loans. Wholesale
lending in the Barclays Bank UK Group includes Business Banking and Education, Social Housing and Local Authorities (ESHLA).
Credit risk management objectives are to:
▪ maintain a framework of controls to oversee credit risk
▪ identify, assess and measure credit risk clearly and accurately across the Barclays Bank UK Group and within each separate business,
from the level of individual facilities up to the total portfolio
▪ control and plan credit risk taking in line with external stakeholder expectations, including risk return objectives, and avoiding undesirable
concentrations
▪ monitor credit risk and adherence to agreed controls.
Organisation, roles and responsibilities
The first line of defence has primary responsibility for managing credit risk within the risk appetite and limits set by the Risk function,
supported by a defined set of policies, standards and controls. In the Barclays Bank UK Group, business risk committees (attended by the
first line) monitor and review the credit risk profile of each business unit where the most material issues are escalated to the Retail Credit
Risk Management Committee, Wholesale Credit Risk Management Committee and Barclays UK Risk Committee.
Wholesale and retail portfolios are managed separately to reflect the differing nature of the assets; wholesale balances tend to be larger and
are managed on an individual basis, while retail balances are greater in number but lesser in value and are, therefore, managed in
aggregated segments.
The responsibilities of the credit risk management teams in the businesses, the sanctioning team and other shared services include:
sanctioning new credit agreements; setting strategies for approval of transactions (principally retail); setting risk appetite; monitoring risk
against limits and other parameters; setting recession readiness frameworks to protect portfolios in the event of economic stress,
maintaining robust processes, data gathering, quality, storage and reporting methods for effective credit risk management; performing
effective turnaround and workout scenarios for wholesale portfolios via dedicated restructuring and recoveries teams and maintaining
robust collections and recovery processes/units for retail portfolios. The credit risk management teams in the Barclays Bank UK Group are
accountable to the Barclays Bank UK Group CRO who, in turn, reports to the Barclays Group CRO.
For wholesale portfolios, credit risk managers are organised in sanctioning teams by client portfolio. In the wholesale portfolios, credit risk
approval is undertaken by experienced credit risk professionals operating within a clearly defined delegated authority framework, with only
the most senior credit officers entrusted with the higher levels of delegated authority. The largest credit exposures require the support of
the Barclays Bank UK PLC Senior Credit Officer. For exposures in excess of the Barclays Bank UK PLC Senior Credit Officer’s authority,
approval by the Barclays Bank UK PLC CRO is also required. Where exposures are also of Barclays Group level significance, the Barclays
Group Credit Risk Committee, attended by the Barclays Bank UK PLC Senior Credit Officer, provides a formal mechanism for the Barclays
Group Senior Credit Officer to exercise the highest level of credit authority.
Credit risk mitigation
The Barclays Bank UK Group employs a range of techniques and strategies to actively mitigate credit risks. These can broadly be divided
into three types:
▪ netting and set-off
▪ collateral
▪ risk transfer
Netting and set-off
Credit risk exposures can be reduced by applying netting and set-off. For derivative transactions, the Barclays Bank UK Group’s normal
practice is to enter into standard master agreements with counterparties (e.g. ISDAs). These master agreements typically allow for netting
of credit risk exposure to a counterparty resulting from derivative transactions against the obligations to the counterparty in the event of

[PAGE 65]

Risk review
Principal risk management
default, and so produce a lower net credit exposure. These agreements may also reduce settlement exposure (e.g. for foreign exchange
transactions) by allowing payments on the same day in the same currency to be set-off against one another.
Collateral
The Barclays Bank UK Group has the ability to call on collateral in the event of default of the counterparty, comprising:
▪ home loans: a fixed charge over residential property in the form of houses, flats and other dwellings
▪ wholesale lending: a fixed charge over commercial property and other physical assets, in various forms
▪ other retail lending: includes second lien charges over residential property and finance lease receivables
▪ derivatives: the Barclays Bank UK Group also often seeks to enter into a margin agreement (e.g. Credit Support Annex) with
counterparties with which the Barclays Bank UK Group has master netting agreements in place. These annexes to master agreements
provide a mechanism for further reducing credit risk, whereby collateral (margin) is posted on a regular basis (typically daily) to
collateralise the mark to market exposure of a derivative portfolio measured on a net basis
▪ reverse repurchase agreements: collateral typically comprises highly liquid securities which have been legally transferred to the Barclays
Bank UK Group subject to an agreement to return them for a fixed price
▪ financial guarantees and similar off-balance sheet commitments: cash collateral may be held against these arrangements
Risk transfer
A range of instruments including guarantees can be used to transfer credit risk from one counterparty to another. These mitigate credit risk
in three main ways:
▪ if the risk is transferred to a counterparty which is more creditworthy than the original counterparty, then overall credit risk is reduced
▪ where recourse to the first counterparty remains, both counterparties must default before a loss materialises. This is less likely than the
default of either counterparty individually, so credit risk is reduced
▪ first loss exposures across pools of credit risk can be hedged via synthetic securitisation structures, typically via CLN (credit lending
notes) issuance. As these are fully funded upfront, they provide for a direct reduction in credit risk exposure on referenced pools
Market risk management (audited)
The risk of loss arising from potential adverse changes in the value of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s assets and liabilities from fluctuation
in market variables including, but not limited to, interest rates, foreign exchange, credit spreads, implied volatilities and asset correlations.
Overview
Market Risk within the Barclays Bank UK Group arises from the risk management of the assets held within the liquidity pool. As a result, the
market risk in the Barclays Bank UK Group is minimal. Transactions carrying market risk are executed by the Barclays Bank UK Group
Treasury function.
Organisation, roles and responsibilities
The objectives of market risk management are to:
▪ understand and control market risk by robust measurement, limit setting, reporting and oversight
▪ control market risk within the allocated risk appetite
To meet the above objectives, a governance structure is in place to manage these risks consistent with the ERMF.
The Barclays Bank UK PLC Board Risk Committee recommends market risk appetite to the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board for their approval,
within the parameters set by the Barclays PLC Board. The Barclays Bank UK Group CRO confirms the Barclays Bank UK Group market risk
appetite with the Barclays Group CRO. The Market Risk Committee (MRC) reviews and makes recommendations concerning the Barclays
Group-wide market risk profile to the Barclays Group Risk Committee. This includes overseeing the operation of the Market Risk
Framework and associated policies and standards, monitoring market and regulatory changes, and reviewing limit utilisation levels. The
committee is chaired by the Market Risk Principal Risk Lead and attendees include the business heads of market risk and business aligned
market risk managers.
The Barclays Bank UK Group Treasurer is accountable for all market risks associated with its activities, whilst the Barclays Bank UK Group
CRO is the senior manager accountable for oversight of market risk, in line with the Barclays Group Framework.

[PAGE 66]

Risk review
Principal risk management
Treasury and capital risk management (audited)
This comprises:
Liquidity risk: The risk that the Barclays Bank UK Group is unable to meet its contractual or contingent obligations or that it does not have
the appropriate amount, tenor and composition of funding and liquidity to support its assets.
Capital risk: The risk that the Barclays Bank UK Group has an insufficient level or composition of capital to support its normal business
activities and to meet its regulatory capital requirements under normal operating environments and stressed conditions (both actual and
as defined for internal planning or regulatory testing purposes). This also includes the risk from the Barclays Group’s pension plans.
Interest rate risk in the banking book: The risk that the Barclays Bank UK Group is exposed to capital or income volatility because of a
mismatch between the interest rate exposures of its (non-traded) assets and liabilities. This also includes credit spread risk in the banking
book, the risk that the Barclays Bank UK Group is exposed to capital or income volatility because of changes in credit spreads on its (non-
traded) assets and liabilities.
Barclays Bank UK Group Treasury manages treasury and capital risk exposure on a day-to-day basis with the Barclays Bank UK PLC Asset
and Liability Committee (ALCO) acting as the principal management body. The Barclays Bank UK Group Treasury and Capital Risk function
is responsible for oversight and provides insight into key capital, liquidity, interest rate risk in the banking book (IRRBB) and pension risk
management activities.The assessment and management of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s capital and liquidity position and IRRBB and
pension risk requires the use of judgement, assumptions and estimates. Please see the description of material existing and emerging risks
risks involved.
Liquidity risk management (audited)
Overview
The efficient management of liquidity is essential to the Barclays Bank UK Group in order to retain the confidence of the financial markets
and maintain the sustainability of the business. Treasury and Capital Risk have created a framework to manage all liquidity risk exposures
under both normal and stressed conditions. The framework is designed to maintain liquidity resources that are sufficient in amount, quality
and funding tenor profile to remain within the liquidity limits set by the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board. The Board sets liquidity limits on both
internal and regulatory liquidity metrics.
Organisation, roles and responsibilities
Treasury has the primary responsibility for managing liquidity risk within the set risk appetite. Both Risk and Treasury contribute to the
production of the Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process (ILAAP). The Barclays Bank UK Treasury and Capital Risk function is
responsible for the management and governance of the liquidity risk framework, consistently with Barclays PLC Group policies and
framework and with Barclays Bank UK CRO mandates.
The framework established by Treasury and Capital Risk is designed to deliver the appropriate term and structure of funding, consistent
with the liquidity risk appetite set by the Board.
The framework incorporates a range of ongoing business management tools to monitor and stress test the Barclays Bank UK Group’s
balance sheet, including limit setting. Limit setting and transfer pricing are tools designed to control the level of liquidity risk taken, and
drive the appropriate mix of funds. In addition, Barclays Group maintains a recovery plan which includes application to the Barclays Bank
UK Group. Adherence to limits reduces the likelihood that a liquidity stress event could lead to an inability to meet the Barclays Bank UK
Group’s obligations as they fall due.
The Barclays Bank UK PLC Board approves the Barclays Bank UK Group funding plan, internal stress tests, regulatory stress test results, and
the Barclays Bank UK contribution to the Barclays Group recovery plan. The Barclays Bank UK PLC ALCO is responsible for monitoring and
managing liquidity risk in line with the Barclays Bank UK Group’s funding management objectives, funding plan and risk framework. The
Barclays UK Risk Committee monitors and reviews the liquidity risk profile and control environment, providing second line oversight of the
management of liquidity risk. The Barclays Bank UK PLC Board Risk Committee reviews the risk profile and approved liquidity limits at least
annually and the impact of stress scenarios on the Barclays Bank UK Group funding plan/forecast in order to agree the Barclays Bank UK
Group’s projected funding abilities.
Capital risk management (audited)
Overview
Capital risk is managed through ongoing monitoring and management of the capital and leverage position, regular stress testing and a
robust capital governance framework. The objectives of the framework are to maintain adequate capital for the Barclays Bank UK Group to
withstand the impact of the risks that may arise under normal and stressed conditions, and maintain adequate capital to cover current and
forecast business needs and associated risks to provide a viable and sustainable business offering. The Barclays Bank UK Group aims to
prudently manage its overall leverage position (including risk of excessive leverage) by utilising plausible stress scenarios, reviewing and

[PAGE 67]

Risk review
Principal risk management
deploying management actions in response to deteriorating economic and commercial positions. In order to manage contingent leverage
risk, the Barclays Bank UK Group considers the context from which the business consumption arises, the impact of client utilisation on
leverage and the available actions to manage.
Organisation, roles and responsibilities
Treasury has the primary responsibility for managing and monitoring capital adequacy. The Barclays Bank UK Group Treasury and Capital
Risk function provides oversight of capital risk. Production of the Barclays Bank UK PLC Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process is
the responsibility of Barclays Bank UK Group Treasury.
Capital risk management is underpinned by a control framework and policies. Capital plans reflect the capital management strategy and
are implemented to deliver on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s objectives, which are aligned to those of Barclays Group. The Barclays Bank UK
Group-specific capital plans are developed in conformance with the Barclays Group control framework and policies for capital risk.
The Barclays Bank UK PLC Board approves the Barclays Bank UK Group capital plan, internal stress tests and results of regulatory stress
tests. The Barclays Bank UK PLC Board also approves the recovery options documented in the Barclays Group recovery plan pertaining to
the Barclays Bank UK Group. The Barclays Bank UK PLC ALCO is responsible for monitoring and managing capital risk in line with the
Barclays Bank UK Group’s capital management objectives, capital plan and risk frameworks. The Barclays UK Risk Committee monitors and
reviews the capital risk profile and control environment, providing second line oversight of the management of capital risk. The Barclays
Bank UK PLC Board Risk Committee reviews the risk profile, and sets risk appetite at a minimum annually and the impact of stress scenarios
on the Barclays Bank UK Group capital plan/forecast in order to agree Barclays Bank UK Group’s projected capital resources.
Management assures compliance with minimum regulatory capital requirements by reporting to the Barclays Bank UK PLC ALCO with
oversight by the Barclays Group Treasury Committee, as required. In 2024, Barclays complied with all regulatory minimum capital
requirements. Contingent leverage risk is managed by; i) setting comprehensive leverage (and RWA) targets for each business as part of
the Treasury capital management process, taking into account adherence to early warning indicators and maintain a healthy leverage ratio,
and; ii) Monitoring execution of actions taken to course-correct as necessary.
Barclays Bank UK PLC is a participating employer in the UK Retirement Fund (UKRF), whose assets and liabilities are currently held on the
Barclays Bank PLC balance sheet. It is Barclays intention to sectionalise the UKRF in July 2025, with Barclays Bank UK PLC employees
moving to one section and other members in a separate section. Until that date, the nature of pension risk for Barclays Bank UK PLC is
contingent, specifically on a Barclays Bank PLC default. Refer to Note 28 Staff Costs for further detail.
Interest rate risk in the banking book management (IRRBB)
Overview
Interest rate risk in the banking book is driven by customer deposit taking and lending activities, investments in the liquid asset portfolio
and funding activities. As per the Barclays Bank UK Group’s policy to remain within the defined risk appetite, hedging strategies are
executed to mitigate the various IRRBB risks that result from these activities. However, the Barclays Bank UK Group remains susceptible to
interest rate risk and other non-traded market risks from the following key sources:
▪ Interest rate and repricing risk: the risk that net interest income could be adversely impacted by a change in interest rates, differences in
the timing of interest rate changes between assets and liabilities, and other constraints on interest rate changes as per product terms and
conditions.
▪ Customer behavioural risk: the risk that net interest income could be adversely impacted by the discretion that customers and
counterparties may have in respect of being able to vary from their contractual obligations with the Barclays Bank UK Group. This risk is
often referred to by industry regulators as ‘embedded option risk’.
▪ Investment risks in the liquid asset portfolio: the risk that the fair value of assets held in the liquid asset portfolio and associated risk
management portfolios could be adversely impacted by market volatility, creating volatility in capital directly.
Organisation, roles and responsibilities
The Barclays Bank UK Group ALCO, together with the Barclays Group Treasury Committee, are responsible for monitoring and managing
IRRBB risk in line with the Barclays Bank UK Group’s management objectives and risk frameworks. The Barclays UK Risk Committee and
Treasury and Capital Risk Committee monitor and review the IRRBB risk profile and control environment, providing second line oversight of
the management of IRRBB. The Barclays Bank UK Group Board Risk Committee reviews the interest rate risk profile, including setting of risk
appetite at a minimum annually and the impact of stress scenarios on the interest rate risk of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s banking books.
In addition, the Barclays Bank UK Group’s IRRBB policy sets out the processes and key controls required to identify all IRRBB risks arising
from banking book operations, to monitor the risk exposures via a set of metrics with a frequency in line with the risk management horizon,
and to manage these risks within agreed risk appetite and limits.

[PAGE 68]

Risk review
Principal risk management
Operational risk management
The risk of loss to the Barclays Bank UK Group from inadequate or failed processes or systems, human factors or due to external events
(for example fraud) where the root cause is not due to credit or market risks.
Overview
The management of operational risk has three key objectives:
▪ deliver and oversee an operational risk capability owned and used by business leaders to enable sound risk decisions over the long term
▪ provide the frameworks, policies and standards to enable management to meet their risk management responsibilities while the second
line of defence provides robust, independent, and effective oversight and challenge
▪ deliver a consistent and aggregated measurement of operational risk which will provide clear and relevant insights, so that the right
management actions can be taken to keep the operational risk profile consistent with the Barclays Bank UK Group’s strategy, the stated
risk appetite and stakeholder needs
The Barclays Bank UK Group operates within a system of internal controls that enables business to be transacted and risk taken without
exposing the Barclays Bank UK Group to unacceptable potential losses or reputational damages.
Organisation, roles and responsibilities
The prime responsibility for the management of operational risk and the compliance with control requirements rests with the business and
functional units where the risk arises. The operational risk profile and control environment is reviewed by business management through
business risk committees and control committees. Operational risk issues escalated from these meetings are considered through the
second line of defence review meetings. Depending on their nature, the outputs of these meetings are presented to the Operational Risk
Profile Forum, the Operational Risk Committee, the Barclays UK Operational Risk Committee, the Barclays UK Risk Committee, the Barclays
Bank UK PLC Board Risk Committee or the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board Audit Committee. In addition, specific reports are prepared by
Operational Risk on a regular basis for the GRC and the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board Risk Committee.
Businesses and functions are required to report their operational risks on both a regular and an event-driven basis. The reports include a
profile of the material risks that may threaten the achievement of their objectives and the effectiveness of key controls, operational risk
events and a review of scenarios. Specific reports are prepared by the business and Barclays Bank UK Group Operational Risk on a regular
basis for the Barclays UK Operational Risk Committee, the Barclays UK Risk Committee, and the BRC.
The Barclays Group Head of Operational Risk is responsible for establishing, owning and maintaining an appropriate Barclays Group-wide
Operational Risk Framework, meanwhile the Barclays Bank UK PLC Head of Operational Risk is responsible for overseeing the portfolio of
operational risk across all Barclays Bank UK Group businesses.
The Operational Risk function acts in a second line of defence capacity and is responsible for defining and overseeing the implementation
of the framework and monitoring the Barclays Bank UK Group’s operational risk profile, including risk-based review and challenge. The
Operational Risk function alerts management when risk levels exceed acceptable tolerance in order to drive timely decision making and
actions by the first line of defence.
Operational risk categories
Operational risks are grouped into risk categories to support effective risk management, measurement and reporting. These comprise:
Change Delivery Management Risk; Data & Records Management Risk; Financial Reporting Risk; Fraud Risk; Information Security Risk;
Operational Recovery Planning Risk; Payments Process Risk; People Risk; Premises Risk; Physical Security Risk; Risk Reporting; Supplier
Risk; Tax Risk; Technology Risk and Transaction Operations Risk.
In addition to the above, operational risk encompasses the risk associated with compliance with Group Resolution Planning Prudential
regulatory requirements.
For definitions of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s Operational Risk Categories and Connected Risks, refer to pages 139 to 140 of the Barclays
Bank UK PLC Pillar 3 Report 2024.
Model risk management
The potential for adverse consequences from decisions based on incorrect or misused model outputs and reports.
Overview
The Barclays Bank UK Group uses models to support a broad range of activities, including informing business decisions and strategies,
measuring and limiting risk, valuing exposures, conducting stress testing, assessing capital adequacy, managing client assets, and meeting
reporting requirements.

[PAGE 69]

Risk review
Principal risk management
Since models are imperfect and incomplete representations of reality, they may be subject to uncertainty, errors and inappropriate use
affecting the accuracy of their output. This can result in inappropriate business decisions being made, financial loss, regulatory risk,
reputational risk and/or inadequate capital reporting. Models may also be misused, for instance applied to products that they were not
intended for, or not adjusted, where fundamental changes to their environment would justify re-evaluating their core assumptions.
Robust model risk management is crucial to assessing and managing model risk. Strong model risk culture, appropriate technological
environment, and adequate focus on understanding and resolving model limitations are crucial components.
Organisation, roles and responsibilities
Model Risk is a principal risk within the ERMF and is centrally governed by the Model Risk Management ("MRM") function. MRM is an
independent function responsible for establishing and maintaining the framework and the model inventory needed to assess, manage, and
report model risk. The Global Head of MRM reports directly to the Group Chief Risk Officer.
MRM establishes model risk policy and standards, sets out and monitors model risk appetite, validates and approves models, reports on
model risk, operates the controls that govern models and maintains the inventory of all models used by the Group globally.
MRM operates the Group Model Risk Committee (GMRC), the purpose of which is to review and monitor the Model Risk profile and control
environment across the Model Risk portfolio and assess the exposure against the approved appetite and associated tolerances. The GMRC
escalates to the Group Risk Committee (GRC).
MRM also operates the Model Risk Horizontal Control Forum (MR HCF) that oversees the consistent and effective implementation of the
Barclays control framework within Model Risk. The MR HCF escalates to the Group Controls Committee.
MRM reports on the model risk profile to the Group Board Risk Committee, the Group Risk Committee, key Barclays Legal Entity risk and
control committees and forums and Model Ownership Area (MOA) committees; the latter may be established by the business or functions.
These committees consider Model Risk matters relevant to them and escalate as required in compliance with internal applicable
governance policies.
In addition, an independent Model Strategy and Oversight (MSO) Team provides oversight of strategic modelling decisions of material
models, in particular ensuring compliance with regulations and relevant technical standards, following a risk-based approach focusing on
material modelling issues, including:
• Ensures a comprehensive / consistent approach taken across the bank to deliver material models requirements.
• Provides challenge to modelling decisions taken by Model Owners and Developers.
• Establishes, maintains, and runs the requisite forum (i.e. Group Model Management Steering Committee) to facilitate Senior
Management oversight of the strategic approach taken for the development/re-development of material models and of key model
aspects of associated rating systems within Barclays.
As per the ERMF, the first line of defence (1LOD) is comprised of all employees engaged in the revenue generating and client facing areas
of the firm as well as all associated support functions, including Finance, Treasury, Technology and Operations, Human Resources, and
Administration. Employees of risk and compliance are the second line of defence (2LOD).
The 1LOD for Model Risk is represented by 1LOD areas developing, using and owning models. 2LOD areas develop, use or employ models
as well. In such cases, these 2LOD areas will be subject to independent oversight from MRM and within the MRM framework are
considered as 1LOD. MRM is the 2LOD for Model Risk.
Compliance risk management
The risk of poor outcomes for, or harm to, customers, clients and markets, arising from the delivery of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s
products and services (Compliance Risk), and the risk its clients, customers or markets from a failure to comply with the laws, rules and
regulations (LRR) applicable to the firm.
Overview
Compliance Risk incorporates market integrity, customer protection, financial crime, product design and review and the newly created
Laws, Rules and Regulations risks. Barclays acts at all times to operate its business in full accordance with all applicable laws, rules and
regulations, and to deliver good outcomes for / avoid harm to customers, clients and markets. Barclays will act in good faith; avoid causing
foreseeable harm and enable and support customers to pursue their financial objectives.
Organisation, roles and responsibilities
The Compliance Risk Management Framework (CRMF) outlines how the Barclays Bank UK Group manages and measures its Compliance
Risk Profile. The Group Chief Compliance Officer is accountable for developing, maintaining and overseeing a group-wide CRMF. The
Barclays Bank UK Group Chief Compliance Officer is responsible for providing effective oversight, management and escalation of
Compliance Risk in line with the CRMF at the Entity and Subsidiary level. This includes overseeing the development and maintenance of the

[PAGE 70]

Risk review
Principal risk management
relevant Compliance Risk policies and standards including monitoring and reporting on the consistent application and effectiveness of the
implementation of controls to manage Compliance Risk. It is the responsibility of the first line of defence to establish conduct related
controls to manage its performance and assess conformance to these policies and controls. The responsibility for LRR risk management
sits across various functions and business units, including Legal, Chief Controls Office, Risk and Compliance.
Senior managers are accountable within their areas of responsibility for owning and managing Compliance Risk in accordance with the
CRMF, as defined within their regulatory Statement of Responsibilities, and a dedicated team has been established in Compliance to
oversee and support senior managers in LRR risk management.
Compliance as an independent second line function oversees that Compliance Risks are effectively identified, managed, monitored and
escalated, and has a key role in helping Barclays achieve the right conduct outcomes and evolve a compliance-focused culture.
The governance of Compliance Risk within the Barclays Bank UK Group is fulfilled through management committees and forums operated
by the first and second lines of defence with clear escalation and reporting lines into Board level committees. The Barclays UK Risk
Committee is the primary second line governance committee for the oversight of the Compliance Risk profile. The Barclays UK Risk
Committee’s responsibilities include the identification and discussion of any emerging Compliance Risk exposures in the Barclays Bank UK
Group. A new sub-committee of the Barclays PLC Group Risk Committee was established to provide oversight on LRR risk across the
Barclays PLC Group, including Barclays Bank UK. This committee is chaired by the Barclays PLC Group Chief Compliance Officer.
Reputation risk management
The risk that an action, transaction, investment, event, decision, or business relationship will reduce trust in the Barclays Bank UK Group’s
integrity and/or competence.
Overview
A reduction of trust in the Barclays Bank UK Group’s integrity and competence may reduce the attractiveness of the Barclays Bank UK
Group to stakeholders and could lead to negative publicity, loss of revenue, regulatory or legislative action, loss of existing and potential
client business, reduced workforce morale and difficulties in recruiting talent. Ultimately it may destroy shareholder value.
Organisation, roles and responsibilities
The Barclays PLC Board is responsible for reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s management of
reputation risk.
The Barclays Bank UK Group Chief Compliance Officer is responsible for overseeing the management of Reputation Risk for Barclays Bank
UK Group and the Head of Public Policy and Corporate Responsibility is responsible for the publication of appropriate Reputation Risk and
associated standards, including tolerances against which data is monitored, reported on and escalated, as required. The Reputation Risk
Management Framework sets out what is required to manage reputation risk across the Barclays Bank UK Group, including escalations to
the Group Reputation Risk Committee, as required.
Each colleague is responsible for identifying, assessing and escalating reputation risk.
The Barclays Bank UK Group is required to operate within established reputation risk appetite, and its component businesses prepare
reports for its respective Risk and Board Risk Committees highlighting their most significant current and potential reputation risks and
issues and how they are being managed. These reports are a key internal source of information for the quarterly reputation risk reports
which are prepared for the Barclays UK Risk Committee and the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board.
Legal risk management
The risk of loss or imposition of penalties, damages or fines from the failure of the Barclays Bank UK to meet applicable laws, rules,
regulations or contractual requirements or to assert or defend its intellectual property rights.
Overview
In conjunction with the Barclays Control Framework, the Group wide Legal Risk Management Framework (LRMF), which applies to
Barclays Bank UK, comprises a number of integrated components that details how the Barclays Group identifies, manages and measures its
legal risk profile.
The multitude of laws and regulations that the Barclays Bank UK Group is subject to are highly dynamic and their application to particular
circumstances is often unclear resulting in a high level of inherent legal risk. The LRMF seeks to mitigate legal risk, including through the
implementation of Barclays Group wide legal risk policies, requiring the engagement of legal professionals to provide legal advice in
situations that have the potential for legal risk, identification and management of legal risks by those legal professionals, and escalation of
legal risk as necessary. Legal risk is also mitigated by the requirements of the Compliance Risk Management Framework, including the
responsibility of legal professionals to proactively identify, communicate and provide legal advice on applicable laws, rules and regulations.
Notwithstanding these mitigating actions, Barclays Bank UK Group operates with a level of residual legal risk, for which Barclays Bank UK
Group has limited tolerance.

[PAGE 71]

Risk review
Principal risk management
Organisation, roles and responsibilities
The Barclays Bank UK Group businesses and functions have responsibility for identifying and escalating legal risk to the Legal Function, as
well as responsibility for adherence to control requirements.
The Legal Function organisation and coverage model aligns legal expertise to businesses, functions, products, activities and geographic
locations so that the Barclays Bank UK Group receives legal advice and support from appropriate legal professionals, working in partnership
proactively to identify, manage and escalate legal risks as necessary.
The senior management of the Legal Function oversees, challenges and monitors the legal risk profile and effectiveness of the legal risk
control environment across the Barclays Group. The Legal Function provides support to all areas of the bank and is not formally part of any
of the three lines of defence. Except in relation to the legal advice it provides or procures, the Legal Function is subject to oversight from the
second line of defence with respect to its own Operational and Compliance risks, as well as with respect to the legal risk to which the bank
is exposed.
The Barclays Group General Counsel is responsible for developing and maintaining a Barclays Group wide LRMF. This includes defining the
relevant legal risk policies, and producing the Barclays Group wide qualitative statement for legal risk as part of Barclays’ risk appetite
statement. The legal entity General Counsels are responsible for the adoption and effective implementation of legal risk policies in the
respective legal entity.
The legal risk profile and control environment is reviewed by management through business risk committees and control committees. The
Barclays UK Risk Committee is the most senior executive body responsible for reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of risk
management across Barclays Bank UK. Escalation paths from this committee exist to the Barclays Group Risk Committee and Barclays Bank
UK PLC Board Risk Committee.
Financial crime risk management
The risk that the Barclays Bank UK Group and its associated persons (employees or third parties) commit or facilitate financial crime, and/
or Barclays products and services are used to facilitate financial crime. Financial Crime undermines market integrity and may result in:
Harm to clients, customers, counterparties or employees; diminished confidence in financial products and services; damage to Barclays
reputation; regulatory breaches; and/or financial penalties.
Overview
Financial Crime risk incorporates anti-bribery and corruption, anti-money laundering, anti-tax evasion facilitation and sanctions risks.
The Barclays Bank UK Group has no appetite to operate its business other than in full accordance with all applicable laws, rules and
regulations, in order to deliver good outcomes for / avoid harm to customers, clients and markets. Barclays will enable and support clients
and customers to safely pursue their financial objectives and avoid causing negative impacts to the same through regulatory or legislative
breaches, including potential or foreseeable harm, caused by financial crime.
Barclays strives to prevent exposure to, detect and/or disrupt financial crime through the execution of its end to end control framework.
Organisation, roles and responsibilities
The Financial Crime Risk Management Framework (FCRMF) outlines how the Barclays Bank UK Group manages and measures its Financial
Crime risk profile. The Group Chief Compliance Officer is accountable for developing, maintaining and overseeing the Group wide FCRMF.
The Legal Entity Money Laundering Reporting Officers are responsible for providing effective oversight, management and escalation of
financial crime risk in line with the FCRMF at the Entity and Subsidiary level. This includes defining and owning the relevant financial crime
risk policies which detail the control objectives, principles and other core requirements for the activities of the Group. It is the responsibility
of the first line of defence to establish financial crime related controls to manage its performance and assess conformance to these policies
and controls. The responsibility for LRR risk management sits across various functions and business units, including Legal, Chief Controls
Office, Risk and Compliance.
Senior managers are accountable within their areas of responsibility for owning and managing financial crime risk in accordance with the
FCRMF, as defined within their regulatory Statement of Responsibilities.
Financial Crime Compliance is an independent second line function oversees that financial crime risks are effectively identified, managed,
monitored and escalated, and has a key role in helping Barclays achieve the right conduct outcomes and evolve a compliance-focused
culture.
The governance of financial crime risk within the Group is fulfilled through management committees and forums operated by the first and
second lines of defence with clear escalation and reporting lines to the Board. The Barclays Group and the Barclays UK Risk Committee are
the primary second line governance committees for the oversight of the Financial Crime Risk Profile. The risk committees’ responsibilities
include the identification and discussion of any emerging financial crime risk exposures in the Barclays Group and Barclays Bank Group.

[PAGE 72]

Risk review
Risk performance
Climate risk
Overview
Barclays has assessed the physical and transition risks associated with Corporate and Financials sectors to identify and categorise industry
segments / activities with heightened vulnerability to climate risks as elevated sectors. In each sector there are a range of vulnerabilities;
whilst Barclays distinguishes elevated activities within high-level sectors, not all our clients in sectors classified as elevated will have high
carbon intensity or physical risk vulnerability.
For Barclays Bank UK PLC, UK Mortgages and Business Banking Agriculture have been identified as portfolios with ‘elevated’ exposure to
the physical and transition risks of climate change. Barclays Bank UK Group has exposure to other elevated sectors in the Business Bank
portfolio which are of lower materiality. Climate risk considerations have been incorporated into annual mandate and scale reviews across
Barclays Bank UK Group’s portfolios.
The UK Mortgages portfolio is affected by physical risks, including flooding, subsidence and coastal erosion. From a transition risk
perspective, the UK Mortgages portfolio is exposed to potential changes in energy efficiency performance requirements. Both the physical
and transition risks that the UK Mortgages portfolio is exposed to may impact property valuations and affordability.
The Business Banking Agriculture portfolio is exposed to the physical risks of climate change such as flooding and drought. The Dairy &
Cattle sub-sector is exposed to the transition risks of climate change, including changes in consumer behaviour, as well as the potential
introduction of emissions taxation given the sector’s significant contribution to the UK’s methane emissions.
Subsidence: Total Volume of stock (as % of total UK Mortgages portfolio) per risk band
Subsidence is driven by the interplay of precipitation, temperature and soil type factors, which result in volumetric changes to the soil.
Increased volatility in weather conditions, as a result of climate change, contributes to the acceleration of subsidence impacts. Some areas,
particularly those with high concentrations of clay soil for example, London, are more susceptible to subsidence. This shrink-swell impact
can cause localised property level impacts, resulting in impacts to the valuation of a property, or impacts to affordability through
remediation costs and high insurance premiums.
The Barclays Bank UK Group works with a third-party climate data provider to support climate risk data enhancements within the UK
Mortgages portfolio. This includes the ability to map the subsidence risk at a property level. The subsidence risk scoring is based on soil
properties, in particular the extent to which the soil will shrink under hot and dry weather conditions, as well as the predicted temperature
and probability of extreme rainfall. These variables are combined with subsidence claims per postcode to generate a pseudo-quantitative
score, where a property in class 9 is around nine times more likely as a property in class 1 to make a subsidence claim. A small proportion
of the UK Mortgages portfolio is not mapped to a subsidence risk score (c.5.6%). This is due either to a lack of data coverage (i.e. the
property is not covered by underlying maps), or a lack of certainty in address matching.
As at As at
30 September 30 September
20241 2023
Risk Band Qualitative Risk Score Volume % Volume %
0 No Subsidence Risk — —
1 9.6 9.5
2 Low 36.1 36.0
3 23.4 23.5
4 4.7 4.7
5 Moderate 4.6 4.7
6 3.3 3.4
7 2.4 2.4
8 High — —
9 0.2 0.3
10 5.3 5.4
11 — —
12 2.6 2.6
Very High
13 — —
14 — —
15 2.2 2.3
Missing 5.6 5.2
Note
1 Data collected from 3rd party source based on one quarter lag, 30 September 2024 closest available dataset.
Flood: Total Volume of stock (as % of total UK Mortgages portfolio) per risk band
Flooding in the UK is forecast to increase over time, with the potential for this increase to accelerate if greenhouse gas emissions are not
reduced. The increased risk of flooding has the potential to impact the valuation of properties directly, as well as indirectly where areas may
become high risk and property demand falls. Remediation costs, high insurance premiums or potential lack of insurance coverage have the
potential to impact affordability.

[PAGE 73]

Risk review
Risk performance
Climate risk
The Barclays Bank UK Group works with a third-party climate data provider to support climate risk data enhancements within the UK
Mortgages portfolio. This has enabled the Barclays Bank UK Group to move from postcode level to property level flood data granularity.
Flood Risk bands are based on average annual loss, generated using flood hazard frequency and flood depth from tidal, surface, pluvial and
fluvial flooding and accounting for the mitigating impact of flood defences where these are present. Properties in the Moderate and High
Risk bands are expected to face above average insurance costs given their elevated exposure to flood risk. Those within the Very High band
and which meet certain requirements (e.g. owner occupied, built before-2009, are a single residential unit or a building comprising of two
or three residential units) are considered likely to be eligible for Flood Re (a government subsidised flood insurance scheme).
As at As at
30 September 30 September
20241 2023
Risk Band Volume % Volume %
Negligible 80.9 81.3
Very Low 7.6 7.6
Low 1.8 1.8
Moderate 1.6 1.6
High 2.6 2.6
Very High 1.2 1.2
Missing 4.3 3.9
Note
1 Data collected from 3rd party source based on one quarter lag, 30 September 2024 closest available dataset.
Flood: Very High & High Flood Risk Exposure per region (as % of Total Regional Exposure)
The map below represents the proportion of properties within the UK Mortgages portfolio at High and Very High risk of flood per region as
a percentage of the total regional exposure (excluding Kensington Mortgage Company originated properties). The flood metrics are
presented on current risk levels and are based on average annual loss, generated using flood hazard frequency and flood depth from tidal,
surface, pluvial and fluvial flooding and accounting for the mitigating impact of flood defences where these are present. The mapping
covers c.95% of the UK Mortgages portfolio on a total exposure basis - the remaining c.5% of properties are not currently mapped to flood
risk ratings on a property level basis as a result of a lack of data coverage (i.e. the property is not covered by underlying maps), or a lack of
certainty in address matching.
Scotland
% of Total Lending: 3.7%
% of Total Lending
of which:
(as % of total UK Mortgages – High: 1.9%
balances) – Very High: 0.9%
– High: 2.5% North East
– Very High: 1.0% % of Total Lending: 1.9%
of which:
– High: 1.2%
N. Ireland
– Very High: 0.7%
% of Total Lending: 0.9%
Yorks & the Humber
of which:
– High: 1.1% % of Total Lending: 4.0%
– Very High: 0.5% of which:
– High: 2.3%
North West
– Very High: 1.3%
% of Total Lending: 6.0%
East Midlands
of which:
– High: 2.7% % of Total Lending: 4.5%
– Very High: 1.7% of which:
– High: 2.9%
Wales – Very High: 2.5%
% of Total Lending: 2.3%
East of England
of which:
% of Total Lending: 12.2%
– High: 2.2%
of which:
– Very High: 0.6%
– High: 2.4%
West Midlands – Very High: 0.9%
% of Total Lending: 5.2%
London
of which:
% of Total Lending: 32.5%
– High: 1.5%
Of which
– Very High: 0.5%
– High: 2.6%
South West – Very High: 0.6%
% of Total Lending: 6.3% South East
of which:
% of Total Lending: 20.6%
– High: 2.4%
of which:
– Very High: 0.9%
– High: 3.0%
– Very High: 1.0 %
Darker shades indicate higher proportion of high or very high flood risk exposure
High and Very High Flood Risk are shown as % of regional exposure

[PAGE 74]

Risk review
Risk performance
Climate risk
Note
Data collected from 3rd party source based on one quarter lag, 30 September 2024 closest available dataset
Coastal Erosion: Total Volume of stock (as % of total UK Mortgages portfolio) per risk band
Coastal Erosion is defined as the loss or displacement or land, or the long-term removal of sediment and rocks along the coastline due to
the action of waves, currents, tides, wind-driven water, waterborne ice, or other impacts of storms. The increased volatility of weather
conditions, as a result of climate change contribute to the acceleration of coastal erosion impacts.
Coastal erosion risk is calculated using the modelled hazard level and the likelihood of that particular hazard impacting the value of the
property. For example, a score of 100 (Very High Risk) might be assigned to a property within an area of predicted coastline retreat. In this
situation, the likelihood of the ground collapsing is high (the coastal erosion data has determined that the current surface will no longer
exist in n years) and the potential severity of damage to the property is also high (the building itself could partially or completely collapse
into the sea).
As at 30 As at 30
September September
20241 2023
Risk Band Volume % Volume %
Negligible 94.4 94.8
Low 0.0 0.0
Moderate 0.0 0.0
Very High 0.0 0.0
Missing 5.6 5.2
Note
1 Data collected from 3rd party source based on one quarter lag, 30 September 2024 closest available dataset.
Current and Potential Energy Performance Certificate (EPC): Total Volume of stock (as % of total UK Mortgages portfolio) per EPC
rating
The transition risk in the UK Mortgages portfolio is assessed via the distribution of Current & Potential EPC ratings across the portfolio. One
of the levers to decarbonise the UK housing stock for the UK Government is to tighten energy efficiency requirements. In 2024, the UK
Government announced that the minimum EPC rating of rental properties will be raised to EPC C (from EPC E) by 2030. It is anticipated that
any tightening of minimum energy efficiency standards (MEES) will focus initially on buy-to-let properties. Buy-to-Let properties which are
privately rented are currently required to have a minimum EPC rating of E. The transition risk identified has the potential to impact the
valuation of properties directly, alongside impacting affordability as properties which fall under MEES may no longer be able to be rented
out or the landlord may need to pay for retrofitting to be brought up to standard.
EPC ratings range from A (most efficient) to G (least efficient). Current and Potential EPC ratings are used as the basis for assessing
expected energy costs but do not give a precise picture of emission intensity. The UK Mortgages portfolio is mapped to the Government
EPC Register. Properties may not feature on the Government EPC Register as some properties may have never been required to have an
EPC rating (not been sold or rented out since 2007), their EPC rating may have expired (EPC ratings are valid for 10 years) or the property
may be in Scotland or Northern Ireland (which use separate databases). Whilst Barclays’ proportion of ‘missing EPC ratings’ has declined
year on year, the issue of missing EPC ratings is prevalent across the industry.
Current EPC: Residential and Buy-to-let balances and volume of stock per EPC rating as at September 20241
Current EPC Rating Residential Balance as % of Volume as % of Buy-to-Let Balance as % of Volume as % of
Mortgage Balances Residential Residential Mortgage Balances Buy-to-Let Buy-to-Let
Mortgages portfolio Mortgages portfolio Mortgages portfolio Mortgages portfolio
£m % % £m % %
A 601 0.4 0.3 19 0.1 0.1
B 23,205 16.5 15.2 1,940 11.0 9.1
C 26,952 19.1 18.4 5,456 30.9 31.8
D 42,000 29.8 27.4 5,986 33.9 34.2
E 16,695 11.9 9.9 1,587 9.0 9.2
F 3,817 2.7 2.1 98 0.6 0.6
G 723 0.5 0.4 25 0.1 0.1
Missing 26,769 19.1 26.3 2,529 14.4 14.9
Total 140,762 100 100 17,640 100 100
Note
1 Data matching provided by 3rd party source based on one quarter lag, 30 September 2024 closest available dataset - EPC monitoring based on 30
September 2024 portfolio and 30 September 2024 Government EPC Register. If no valid EPC is mapped, the expired EPC (where available) is included as a
proxy.

[PAGE 75]

Risk review
Risk performance
Climate risk
EPC: Residential and Buy-to-let balances and volume of stock per EPC rating as at September 20231
Current EPC Residential Balance as % of Volume as % of Buy-to-Let Balance as % of Volume as % of
Rating Mortgage Balances Residential Residential Mortgage Balances Buy-to-Let Buy-to-Let
Mortgages portfolio Mortgages portfolio Mortgages portfolio Mortgages portfolio
£m % % £m % %
A 487 0.3 0.2 20 0.1 0.1
B 22,514 15.8 14.3 2,144 10.7 8.9
C 24,954 17.5 16.6 5,781 28.9 29.6
D 41,575 29.3 26.4 6,842 34.3 34.4
E 17,546 12.3 10.2 1,991 10 10.1
F 4,132 2.9 2.2 129 0.6 0.7
G 780 0.5 0.4 31 0.2 0.2
Missing 30,528 21.4 29.7 3,033 15.2 16.0
Total 142,516 100 100 19,971 100 100
Note
1 Data matching provided by 3rd party source based on one quarter lag, 30 September 2023 closest available dataset - EPC monitoring based on 30
September 2023 portfolio and 30 September 2023 Government EPC Register. If no valid EPC is mapped, the expired EPC (where available) is included as a
proxy.
Potential EPC1: Residential and Buy-to-let balances and volume of stock per EPC rating as at September 20242
Potential EPC Residential Balance as % of Volume as % of Buy-to-Let Balance as % of Volume as % of
Rating Mortgage Balances Residential Residential Mortgage Balances Buy-to-Let Buy-to-Let
Mortgages portfolio Mortgages portfolio Mortgages portfolio Mortgages portfolio
£m % % £m % %
A 13,892 9.9 9.3 474 2.7 2.9
B 52,672 37.4 36 8,017 45.4 45.8
C 37,461 26.6 22.4 5,802 32.9 31.8
D 7,471 5.3 4.6 716 4.1 4
E 2,012 1.4 1.1 87 0.5 0.5
F 398 0.3 0.2 13 0.1 0.1
G 87 0.1 0.1 3 0 0
Missing 26,769 19 26.3 2,528 14.3 14.9
Total 140,762 100 100 17,640 100 100
Notes
1 The potential EPC is the EPC rating that a property can reasonably be expected to achieve if the recommended energy efficiency upgrades are undertaken.
2 Data matching provided by 3rd party source based on one quarter lag, 30 September 2024 closest available dataset - EPC monitoring based on 30
September 2024 portfolio and 30 September 2024 Government EPC Register. If no valid EPC is mapped, the expired EPC (where available) is included as a
proxy.
Potential EPC1: Residential and Buy-to-let balances and volume of stock per EPC rating as at September 20232
Potential EPC Residential Balance as % of Volume as % of Buy-to-Let Balance as % of Volume as % of
Rating Mortgage Balances Residential Residential Mortgage Balances Buy-to-Let Buy-to-Let
Mortgages portfolio Mortgages portfolio Mortgages portfolio Mortgages portfolio
£m % % £m % %
A 13,193 9.3 0.2 516 2.6 2.9
B 50,094 35.1 14.3 8,783 44 44.2
C 37,594 26.4 16.6 6,585 33 31.8
D 8,244 5.8 26.4 915 4.6 4.5
E 2,297 1.6 10.1 118 0.6 0.6
F 468 0.3 2.2 17 0.1 0.1
G 100 0.1 0.4 4 0 0
Missing 30,526 21.4 29.8 3,033 15.1 15.9
Total 142,516 100 100 19,971 100 100
Note
1 The potential EPC is the EPC rating that a property can reasonably be expected to achieve if the recommended energy efficiency upgrades are undertaken.
2 Data matching provided by 3rd party source based on one quarter lag, 30 September 2023 closest available dataset - EPC monitoring based on 30
September 2023 portfolio and 30 September 2023 Government EPC Register. If no valid EPC is mapped, the expired EPC (where available) is included as a
proxy.
Business Banking Agriculture - Dairy & Cattle Exposure
Given methane’s global warming potential the Dairy & Cattle sector is a significant contributor to the UK’s emissions footprint and is
therefore susceptible to the transition risks of climate change, namely consumer preference changes and potential emissions taxation. In
2024 Barclays Bank UK launched a Client Transition Tool, which is a form completed for Barclays Bank UK Business Banking clients in Dairy
& Cattle sectors for all new or refinanced lending to assess transition trajectories against Barclays’ targets and benchmarks. This tool will

[PAGE 76]

Risk review
Risk performance
Climate risk
provide further granularity on clients' transition plans and progress. Coverage of the Client Transition Tool across the portfolio will increase
over time. In 2024 Barclays Bank UK also implemented an enhanced Climate & Environment Lens questionnaire for clients in elevated
climate risk sectors.
The Barclays Bank UK Group utilises exposure data to identify what proportion of the Business Banking Agriculture portfolio consists of
lending to Dairy & Cattle clients.
Carbon-related assets
According to Task Force on Carbon-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), certain industry segments are more likely to be financially
impacted than others due to their exposure to certain transition and physical risk factors for example, greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions,
extreme weather events like storms, hurricanes etc. and dependencies on stable weather conditions for their operations and products.
These higher risk industry segments are grouped into four key areas: Energy; Transportation; Materials and Buildings; and Agriculture,
Food, and Forest Products. Barclays Bank UK Group’s exposures to the industries within these groups are reported as carbon-related assets
and can be found in the table on the following page.
Residential Real Estate exposures are also included in this table. Barclays recognises the Mortgage portfolio within the UK as an elevated
climate risk portfolio, although it is not an economic sector. On that basis they have been included in the table.

[PAGE 77]

Risk review
Risk performance
Climate risk
Carbon-related assets (Incl. sub-sector breakdown)1,2
2024 2023
Loan Loan
Physical Transition Loans and commit Of which Loans and commit Of which %
risk3 risk3 advances4 ments Total elevated advances4 ments Total elevated Change
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m %
Agriculture, Food and
Forest Products (logging) 3,318 691 4,009 3,988 3,518 799 4,317 4,295 (7) %
Agriculture ü ü 3,318 691 4,009 3,988 3,518 799 4,317 4,295
Energy & Waters 26 5 31 25 34 8 42 34 (26) %
Power Utilities ü ü 20 2 22 22 26 5 31 31
Metals (waste & recycling) 4 2 6 — 6 2 8 —
Water Utilities ü 2 1 3 3 2 1 3 3
Manufacturing 368 114 482 100 454 119 573 108 (16) %
Automotive ü 12 3 15 10 11 3 14 10
Cements ü 5 1 6 6 6 1 7 7
Chemicals ü 15 5 20 6 20 6 26 10
Food, Bev and Tobacco ü 45 10 55 14 55 11 66 13
Manufacturing - Others ü 257 84 341 60 327 86 413 65
Metals ü 15 5 20 1 15 5 20 1
Packaging Manufacturers:
Metal, Glass and Plastics ü ü 2 — 2 — 3 1 4 —
Paper and Forest Products
(excluding logging) 15 5 20 — 15 5 20 —
Steel 2 1 3 3 2 1 3 2
Material and Building 7,053 478 7,531 333 8,283 295 8,578 449 (12) %
Construction and Materials ü 643 196 839 333 931 195 1,126 449
Real Estate Management
and Development 6,410 282 6,692 — 7,352 100 7,452 —
Mining and Quarrying 8 3 11 10 6 2 8 6 38 %
Mining ü ü 4 2 6 5 4 1 5 3
Oil and Gas (extraction) ü ü 4 1 5 5 2 1 3 3
Transport & storage 243 55 298 131 345 58 403 179 (26) %
Aviation ü ü 2 — 2 2 3 1 4 4
Other Transport Services 112 17 129 — 154 17 171 —
Road Haulage ü 118 33 151 113 170 35 205 152
Shipping ü 11 5 16 16 18 5 23 23
Wholesale and retail
distribution and leisure 353 87 440 147 465 86 551 183 (20) %
Oil and Gas (wholesale) ü 7 3 10 2 10 3 13 5
Others ü 346 84 430 145 455 83 538 178
Home Loans 163,105 11,415 174,520 174,520 163,510 8,184 171,694 171,694 2 %
Residential Real Estate ü 163,105 11,415 174,520 174,520 163,510 8,184 171,694 171,694
Carbon-related Assets/
Elevated Risk Sector Grand
Total 174,474 12,848 187,322 179,254 176,615 9,551 186,166 176,948 1 %
Total loans & advances and
loan commitments 224,699 66,959 291,658 291,658 219,789 49,820 269,609 269,609 8 %
Total loans & advances and
loan commitments 78% 19% 64% 61% 80% 19% 69% 66%
Sub-total of sectors
spanning in multiple
industries
Oil and Gas ü ü 11 4 15 7 12 4 16 8 (6) %
Notes
1 The scope of elevated risk sector mapping has been revised based on our periodic assessment of climate risk sectors, resulting in activities such as renewable
energy within Power Utilities, Water Utilities, Construction and Material, Food and fashion related activities (Others) now being classified as elevated risk
sectors/carbon related assets. The prior year comparatives have been re-presented to align with the updated sector mapping.
2 As industries decarbonise, sectors will increasingly include both carbon and non-carbon related activities e.g. Power Utilities will also include, in part, their
generation capacity from renewable energy sources.
3 Physical & Transition risk indicators are added for elevated risk sectors to indicate the driver of risk. See page 49 for further details.
4 Loans & advances includes debt securities at amortised cost amounting to £17,983m (2023: £17,794m) of which carbon related assets are £nil (2023: £nil)
in Material & Buildings.

[PAGE 78]

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk
Summary of Contents
Page
Credit risk represents a significant risk to the • Credit risk overview and summary of performance 78
Barclays Bank UK Group and mainly arises from
▪ Maximum exposure and effects of netting, collateral and risk transfer 79
exposure to loans and advances.
This section outlines the expected credit loss ▪ Expected credit losses 83
allowances, the movements in allowances – Loans and advances at amortised cost by product 83
during the year, material management
– Movement in gross exposure and impairment allowance including 86
adjustments to model output and
provisions for loan commitments and financial guarantees
measurement uncertainty and sensitivity
analysis. – Stage 2 decomposition 99
– Stage 3 decomposition 99
▪ Management adjustment to models for impairment 100
▪ Climate risk ECL assessment 102
▪ Measurement uncertainty and sensitivity analysis 102
The Barclays Bank UK Group reviews and ▪ Analysis of the concentration of credit risk 111
monitors risk concentrations in a variety of – Credit risk concentration by industry and geography 111
ways. This section outlines performance
▪ Approach to management and representation of credit quality 113
against key concentration risks.
– Asset credit quality 113
– Debt securities 113
– Balance sheet credit quality 114
– Credit exposures by internal PD grade 118
Credit risk monitors exposure performance ▪ Analysis of specific portfolios and asset types 132
across a range of significant portfolios. – Secured home loans 132
– Retail credit cards and retail other 133

[PAGE 79]

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk
All disclosures in this section, pages 78 to 133, are unaudited unless otherwise stated.
Overview
Credit risk represents a significant risk to the Barclays Bank UK Group and mainly arises from exposure to loans and advances.
Credit risk disclosures are materially aligned to the recommendations of the Taskforce on Disclosures about Expected Credit Losses (DECL).
Acquisition of Tesco Bank
Barclays Bank UK PLC has acquired Tesco bank’s retail banking business effective 1 November 2024. Gross loans and advances at
amortised cost as at 31 December 2024 includes £8.3bn of unsecured lending balances from the acquisition of Tesco Bank, comprising of
£4.2bn of credit card receivables and £4.1bn of unsecured personal loans, with corresponding impairment allowance of £0.2bn. On the
acquisition date, balances were originated into Stage 1 with £0.06bn in purchased or originated credit-impaired (POCI) balances. POCI
balances represent a fixed pool of assets purchased at a deep discount to face value reflecting credit losses incurred from the point of
origination to date of acquisition.
Summary of performance in the year
Gross exposure: Gross loans and advances at amortised cost to customers and banks have increased to £226bn (2023: £221bn), driven by
the £8.3bn acquisition of Tesco Bank, partially offset by £(2.1)bn continued repayment of government scheme lending in Business Banking
and £(0.8)bn securitisation of mortgage balances in Q424.
Maximum exposure: The Barclays Bank UK Group’s net exposure to credit risk has increased to £171bn (2023: £143bn). This is primarily
driven by the acquisition of Tesco Bank (leading to an increase of £13.2bn in loan commitments and £8.3bn in loans and advances at
amortised cost), £7bn increase in government issued debt securities, partially offset by a £(5)bn reduction in cash and balances at central
banks. Overall mitigation held against the total exposure has decreased to 53% (2023: 58%), primarily due to increase in unsecured
portfolio driven by the Tesco Bank acquisition and an increase in government issued debt securities considered low risk.
Credit quality: Delinquencies remain broadly stable. UK Cards provisioning continues to be underpinned by low delinquencies and strong
credit quality. A range of activities are in place to protect our existing defensive positioning against macroeconomic headwinds. Further
analysis on the credit quality of assets is presented in the approach to management and representation of credit quality section.
Stage decomposition: A net decrease of £1.1bn is observed in Stage 2 gross exposure driven by an improved GDP forecast and
repayments in Business Banking. Stage 3 balances remains broadly stable at £3.5bn (2023: £3.4bn). Refer to page 99 for further details.
Scenario: The economy is gradually recovering and is further stimulated as restrictive monetary policy continues loosening. For Q424,
macroeconomic scenarios have been refreshed and are designed around a broad range of economic outcomes. The Downside 2 (DS2)
scenario has been broadly aligned to Barclays 2024 Internal Stress Test (IST24) which includes climate drivers. Refer to the Barclays
resilience to climate scenarios on page 62 for further details.
ECL: Impairment allowances on loans and advances at amortised cost including off-balance sheet remains broadly stable at £1,626m
(2023: £1,686m) underpinned by an improved macroeconomic outlook and the acquisition of Tesco Bank. On-balance sheet coverage
remains strong and stable at 0.8% (2023: 0.8%).
Charge: Credit impairment charges were £352m (2023: £308m), driven by the charge on the acquisition of Tesco Bank partially offset by a
resilient credit performance in UK cards and UK Mortgages.
Management adjustments: Economic uncertainty adjustments have decreased to £78m (2023: £181m), informed by lower inflationary risk
and a resilient credit performance in UK retail lending. Refer to the Management adjustment to models for impairment section on page 100
for further details.
Climate: Barclays has performed a credit risk assessment of physical and transition risk due to climate change through a combination of a
scenario approach and targeted reviews on specific portfolios identified as more susceptible to climate risk. As further enhancements
during the year, the DS2 scenario has been aligned to the IST24 which is climate aware and for specific portfolios new climate modelling
techniques were utilised to assess physical and transition risk due to climate change at customer level.
Further detail can be found in the Financial statements section in Note 8 Credit impairment charges. Description of terminology can be
found in the glossary, available at home.barclays/annualreport. Refer to the credit risk management section for details of governance,
policies and procedures.

[PAGE 80]

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk
Maximum exposure and effects of netting, collateral and risk transfer
The following tables present a reconciliation between the Barclays Bank UK Group’s maximum exposure and its net exposure to credit risk,
reflecting the financial effects of risk mitigation reducing the bank’s exposure.
The Barclays Bank UK Group mitigates the credit risk to which it is exposed through netting and set-off, collateral and risk transfer. Further
detail on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s policies to each of these forms of credit enhancement is presented on pages 63 to 64 of the credit
risk management section.
Collateral obtained (audited)
Where collateral has been obtained in the event of default, the Barclays Bank UK Group does not, ordinarily, use such assets for its own
operations and they are usually sold on a timely basis. The carrying value of assets held by the Barclays Bank UK Group as at 31 December
2024, as a result of the enforcement of collateral, was £nil (2023: £nil).
Maximum exposure and effects of netting, collateral and risk transfer (audited)
Exposure
Maximum Netting and Cash Non-cash net of risk
Barclays Bank UK Group exposure set-off collateral collateral Risk transfer mitigation
As at 31 December 2024 £m £m £m £m £m £m
On-balance sheet:
Cash and balances at central banks 29,819 — — — — 29,819
Cash collateral and settlement balances 6,002 — — — — 6,002
Loans and advances at amortised cost:
Retail mortgages 163,105 — — (163,104) — 1
Retail credit cards 15,030 — — — — 15,030
Retail other 8,331 — — (61) (3) 8,267
Corporate loans 20,250 — (23) (10,451) (7,012) 2,764
Total loans and advances at amortised cost 206,716 — (23) (173,616) (7,015) 26,062
Of which credit-impaired (Stage 3):
Retail mortgages 1,597 — — (1,596) — 1
Retail credit cards - excluding POCI 88 — — — — 88
Retail credit cards - POCI 40 — — — — 40
Retail other - excluding POCI 18 — — (12) — 6
Retail other - POCI 17 — — — — 17
Corporate loans 1,227 — — (725) (328) 174
Total credit-impaired loans and advances at amortised
cost 2,987 — — (2,333) (328) 326
Debt securities at amortised cost 17,983 — — — (50) 17,933
Reverse repurchase agreements and other similar
secured lending 5,894 — — (5,894) — —
Trading portfolio assets:
Debt securities 242 — — — — 242
Total trading portfolio assets 242 — — — — 242
Financial assets at fair value through the income
statement
Loans and advances 1,543 — — (1,366) — 177
Total financial assets at fair value through the income
statement 1,543 — — (1,366) — 177
Derivative financial instruments 1,901 (211) (1,688) — — 2
Financial assets at fair value through other
comprehensive income 27,045 — — — (145) 26,900
Other assets 265 — — — — 265
Total on-balance sheet 297,410 (211) (1,711) (180,876) (7,210) 107,402
Off-balance sheet:
Contingent liabilities 710 — — — — 710
Loan commitments 66,959 — — (3,514) (58) 63,387
Total off-balance sheet 67,669 — — (3,514) (58) 64,097
Total 365,079 (211) (1,711) (184,390) (7,268) 171,499

[PAGE 81]

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk
Off-balance sheet exposures are shown gross of provisions of £16m (2023: £27m). See Note 23 Contingent liabilities and commitments for
further details. Corporate loans at amortised cost include £3.1bn (2023: £5bn) of BBLS and CBILS supported by UK Government guarantees
of £3.1bn (2023: £4.9bn), which are included within the Risk transfer column in the table.
Maximum exposure and effects of netting, collateral and risk transfer (audited)
Exposure
Maximum Netting and Cash Non-cash net of risk
Barclays Bank UK Group exposure set-off collateral collateral Risk transfer mitigation
As at 31 December 2023 £m £m £m £m £m £m
On-balance sheet:
Cash and balances at central banks 34,948 — — — — 34,948
Cash collateral and settlement balances 5,507 — — — — 5,507
Loans and advances at amortised cost:
Retail mortgages 163,510 — — (163,508) — 2
Retail credit cards 9,710 — — — — 9,710
Retail other 4,292 — (21) (303) — 3,968
Corporate loans 24,483 — (28) (10,787) (9,494) 4,174
Total loans and advances at amortised cost 201,995 — (49) (174,598) (9,494) 17,854
Of which credit-impaired (Stage 3):
Retail Mortgages 1,602 — — (1,601) — 1
Retail credit cards - excluding POCI 91 — — — — 91
Retail credit cards - POCI — — — — — —
Retail other - excluding POCI 35 — — (18) — 17
Retail other - POCI — — — — — —
Corporate loans 1,068 — — (497) (418) 153
Total credit-impaired loans and advances at amortised
cost 2,796 — — (2,116) (418) 262
Debt securities at amortised cost 17,794 — — — (77) 17,717
Reverse repurchase agreements and other similar
secured lending 3,567 — — (3,567) — —
Trading portfolio assets:
Debt securities 43 — — — — 43
Total trading portfolio assets 43 — — — — 43
Financial assets at fair value through the income
statement
Loans and advances 1,715 — — (1,336) — 379
Total financial assets at fair value through the income
statement 1,715 — — (1,336) — 379
Derivative financial instruments 1,566 (232) (1,280) (52) — 2
Financial assets at fair value through other
comprehensive income 20,409 — — — (65) 20,344
Other assets 186 — — — — 186
Total on-balance sheet 287,730 (232) (1,329) (179,553) (9,636) 96,980
Off-balance sheet:
Contingent liabilities 661 — — — — 661
Loan commitments 49,820 — (20) (4,265) (64) 45,471
Total off-balance sheet 50,481 — (20) (4,265) (64) 46,132
Total 338,211 (232) (1,349) (183,818) (9,700) 143,112

[PAGE 82]

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk
Maximum exposure and effects of netting, collateral and risk transfer (audited)
Exposure
Maximum Netting and Cash Non-cash net of risk
Barclays Bank UK PLC exposure set-off collateral collateral Risk transfer mitigation
As at 31 December 2024 £m £m £m £m £m £m
On-balance sheet:
Cash and balances at central banks 29,819 — — — — 29,819
Cash collateral and settlement balances 6,002 — — — — 6,002
Loans and advances at amortised cost:
Retail mortgages 163,087 — — (163,085) — 2
Retail credit cards 15,030 — — — — 15,030
Retail other 8,331 — — (61) (3) 8,267
Corporate loans 20,654 — (3) (10,451) (7,012) 3,188
Total loans and advances at amortised cost 207,102 — (3) (173,597) (7,015) 26,487
Of which credit-impaired (Stage 3):
Retail mortgages 1,597 — — (1,596) — 1
Retail credit cards - excluding POCI 88 — — — — 88
Retail credit cards - POCI 40 40
Retail other - excluding POCI 18 — — (12) — 6
Retail other - POCI 17 17
Corporate loans 1,227 — — (725) (328) 174
Total credit-impaired loans and advances at amortised
cost 2,987 — — (2,333) (328) 326
Debt securities at amortised cost 17,983 — — — (50) 17,933
Reverse repurchase agreements and other similar
secured lending 5,894 — — (5,894) — —
Trading portfolio assets:
Debt securities 242 — — — — 242
Total trading portfolio assets 242 — — — — 242
Financial assets at fair value through the income
statement
Loans and advances 1,543 — — (1,366) — 177
Total financial assets at fair value through the income
statement 1,543 — — (1,366) — 177
Derivative financial instruments 1,901 (211) (1,680) — — 10
Financial assets at fair value through other
comprehensive income 27,045 — — — (145) 26,900
Other assets 284 — — — — 284
Total on-balance sheet 297,815 (211) (1,683) (180,857) (7,210) 107,854
Off-balance sheet:
Contingent liabilities 710 — — — — 710
Loan commitments 66,574 — — (3,514) (58) 63,002
Total off-balance sheet 67,284 — — (3,514) (58) 63,712
Total 365,099 (211) (1,683) (184,371) (7,268) 171,566
Off-balance sheet exposures are shown gross of provisions of £16m (2023: £27m). See Note 23 Contingent liabilities and commitments for
further details. Corporate loans at amortised cost include £3.1bn (2023 £5bn) of BBLS and CBILS supported by UK Government guarantees
of £3.1bn (2023: £4.9bn), which are included within the Risk transfer column in the table.

[PAGE 83]

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk
Maximum exposure and effects of netting, collateral and risk transfer (audited)
Exposure
Maximum Netting and Cash Non-cash net of risk
Barclays Bank UK PLC exposure set-off collateral collateral Risk transfer mitigation
As at 31 December 2023 £m £m £m £m £m £m
On-balance sheet:
Cash and balances at central banks 34,948 — — — — 34,948
Cash collateral and settlement balances 5,507 — — — — 5,507
Loans and advances at amortised cost:
Retail mortgages 163,473 — — (163,471) — 2
Retail credit cards 9,710 — — — — 9,710
Retail other 4,292 — (21) (303) — 3,968
Corporate loans 25,072 — (6) (10,787) (9,494) 4,785
Total loans and advances at amortised cost 202,547 — (27) (174,561) (9,494) 18,465
Of which credit-impaired (Stage 3):
Retail mortgages 1,602 — — (1,601) — 1
Retail credit cards - excluding POCI 91 — — — — 91
Retail credit cards - POCI — — — — — —
Retail other - excluding POCI 35 — — (18) — 17
Retail other - POCI — — — — — —
Corporate loans 1,068 — — (497) (418) 153
Total credit-impaired loans and advances at amortised
cost 2,796 — — (2,116) (418) 262
Debt securities at amortised cost 17,794 — — — (77) 17,717
Reverse repurchase agreements and other similar
secured lending 3,567 — — (3,567) — —
Trading portfolio assets:
Debt securities 43 — — — — 43
Total trading portfolio assets 43 — — — — 43
Financial assets at fair value through the income
statement
Loans and advances 1,715 — — (1,336) — 379
Total financial assets at fair value through the income
statement 1,715 — — (1,336) — 379
Derivative financial instruments 1,566 (232) (1,265) (52) — 17
Financial assets at fair value through other
comprehensive income 20,409 — — — (65) 20,344
Other assets 193 — — — — 193
Total on-balance sheet 288,289 (232) (1,292) (179,516) (9,636) 97,613
Off-balance sheet:
Contingent liabilities 661 — — — — 661
Loan commitments 49,646 — (20) (4,265) (64) 45,297
Total off-balance sheet 50,307 — (20) (4,265) (64) 45,958
Total 338,596 (232) (1,312) (183,781) (9,700) 143,571

[PAGE 84]

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk
Expected credit losses
Loans and advances at amortised cost by product
Total loans and advances at amortised cost in the credit risk performance section includes loans and advances at amortised cost to banks
and loans and advances at amortised cost to customers.
The table below presents a product breakdown by stages of loans and advances at amortised cost and the impairment allowance, including
purchased or originated credit-impaired (POCI) balances. POCI balances represent a fixed pool of assets purchased at a deep discount to
face value reflecting credit losses incurred from the point of origination to date of acquisition. Also included are stage allocation of debt
securities by gross exposure, impairment allowance and coverage ratio.
Impairment allowance under IFRS 9 considers both the drawn and the undrawn counterparty exposure. For retail portfolios, the total
impairment allowance is allocated to gross loans and advances to the extent allowance does not exceed the drawn exposure and any
excess is reported on the liabilities side of the balance sheet as a provision. For corporate portfolios, impairment allowance on undrawn
exposure is reported on the liability side of the balance sheet as a provision.
Barclays Bank UK Group (audited) Stage 2
Stage 3
Not past <=30 days >30 days excluding Stage 3
As at 31 December 2024 Stage 1 due past due past due Total POCI POCI Total1
Gross exposure £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Retail mortgages 142,153 16,781 2,034 631 19,446 1,652 — 163,251
Retail credit cards 13,497 1,986 47 31 2,064 179 40 15,780
Retail other 7,645 790 49 32 871 130 17 8,663
Corporate loans 16,146 2,905 6 108 3,019 1,464 — 20,629
Total loans and advances at amortised cost 179,441 22,462 2,136 802 25,400 3,425 57 208,323
Debt securities at amortised cost 17,911 75 — — 75 — — 17,986
Total loans and advances at amortised cost
including debt securities 197,352 22,537 2,136 802 25,475 3,425 57 226,309
Impairment allowance
Retail mortgages 30 41 13 7 61 55 — 146
Retail credit cards 219 407 17 16 440 91 — 750
Retail other 119 70 15 16 101 112 — 332
Corporate loans 65 76 1 — 77 237 — 379
Total loans and advances at amortised cost 433 594 46 39 679 495 — 1607
Debt securities at amortised cost 3 — — — — — — 3
Total loans and advances at amortised cost
—
including debt securities 436 594 46 39 679 495 1,610
Net exposure
Retail mortgages 142,123 16,740 2,021 624 19,385 1,597 — 163,105
Retail credit cards 13,278 1,579 30 15 1,624 88 40 15,030
Retail other 7,526 720 34 16 770 18 17 8,331
Corporate loans 16,081 2,829 5 108 2,942 1,227 — 20,250
Total loans and advances at amortised cost 179,008 21,868 2,090 763 24,721 2,930 57 206,716
Debt securities at amortised cost 17,908 75 — — 75 — — 17,983
Total loans and advances at amortised cost
including debt securities 196,916 21,943 2,090 763 24,796 2,930 57 224,699
Coverage ratio % % % % % % % %
Retail mortgages — 0.2 0.6 1.1 0.3 3.3 — 0.1
Retail credit cards 1.6 20.5 36.2 51.6 21.3 50.8 — 4.8
Retail other 1.6 8.9 30.6 50.0 11.6 86.2 — 3.8
Corporate loans 0.4 2.6 16.7 — 2.6 16.2 — 1.8
Total loans and advances at amortised cost 0.2 2.6 2.2 4.9 2.7 14.5 — 0.8
Debt securities at amortised cost — — — — — — — —
Total loans and advances at amortised cost
including debt securities 0.2 2.6 2.2 4.9 2.7 14.5 — 0.7
Note
1 Other financial assets subject to impairment excluded in the table above include cash collateral and settlement balances, reverse repurchase agreements
and other similar secured lending, financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income and other assets. These have a total gross exposure of
£39.3bn and an impairment allowance of £2m. This comprises £2m on £39.1bn Stage 1 exposure, £0m on £0.2bn Stage 2 exposure and £0m on £0m
Stage 3 exposure. Loan commitments and financial guarantee contracts have total impairment allowance of £16m.

[PAGE 85]

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk
Stage 2
Stage 3
Not past <=30 days >30 days excluding Stage 3
As at 31 December 2023 Stage 1 due past due past due Total POCI POCI Total1
Gross exposure £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Retail mortgages 142,943 16,492 1,957 632 19,081 1,709 — 163,733
Retail credit cards 8,094 2,040 53 35 2,128 198 — 10,420
Retail other 3,476 848 50 29 927 148 — 4,551
Corporate loans 19,292 4,318 13 4 4,335 1,320 — 24,947
Total loans and advances at amortised cost 173,805 23,698 2,073 700 26,471 3,375 — 203,651
Debt securities at amortised cost 17,639 158 — — 158 — — 17,797
Total loans and advances at amortised cost
including debt securities 191,444 23,856 2,073 700 26,629 3,375 — 221,448
Impairment allowance
Retail mortgages 39 50 17 10 77 107 — 223
Retail credit cards 111 452 21 19 492 107 — 710
Retail other 38 76 16 16 108 113 — 259
Corporate loans 107 104 1 — 105 252 — 464
Total loans and advances at amortised cost 295 682 55 45 782 579 — 1,656
Debt securities at amortised cost 3 — — — — — — 3
Total loans and advances at amortised cost
including debt securities 298 682 55 45 782 579 — 1,659
Net exposure
Retail mortgages 142,904 16,442 1,940 622 19,004 1,602 — 163,510
Retail credit cards 7,983 1,588 32 16 1,636 91 — 9,710
Retail other 3,438 772 34 13 819 35 — 4,292
Corporate loans 19,185 4,214 12 4 4,230 1,068 — 24,483
Total loans and advances at amortised cost 173,510 23,016 2,018 655 25,689 2,796 — 201,995
Debt securities at amortised cost 17,636 158 — — 158 — — 17,794
Total loans and advances at amortised cost
including debt securities 191,146 23,174 2,018 655 25,847 2,796 — 219,789
Coverage ratio % % % % % % % %
Retail mortgages — 0.3 0.9 1.6 0.4 6.3 — 0.1
Retail credit cards 1.4 22.2 39.6 54.3 23.1 54.0 — 6.8
Retail other 1.1 9.0 32.0 55.2 11.7 76.4 — 5.7
Corporate loans 0.6 2.4 7.7 — 2.4 19.1 — 1.9
Total loans and advances at amortised cost 0.2 2.9 2.7 6.4 3.0 17.2 — 0.8
Debt securities at amortised cost — — — — — — — —
Total loans and advances at amortised cost
including debt securities 0.2 2.9 2.7 6.4 2.9 17.2 — 0.7
Note
1 Other financial assets subject to impairment excluded in the table above include cash collateral and settlement balances, reverse repurchase agreements and
other similar secured lending, financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income and other assets. These have a total gross exposure of
£29.8bn and an impairment allowance of £3m. This comprises £2m on £29.4bn Stage 1 exposure, £1m on £0.4bn Stage 2 exposure and £0m on £0m Stage
3 exposure. Loan commitments and financial guarantee contracts have total impairment allowance of £27m.

[PAGE 86]

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk
Barclays Bank UK PLC (audited) Stage 2
Stage 3
Not past <=30 days >30 days excluding Stage 3
As at 31 December 2024 Stage 1 due past due past due Total POCI POCI Total1
Gross exposure £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Retail mortgages 142,135 16,781 2,034 631 19,446 1,652 — 163,233
Retail credit cards 13,497 1,986 47 31 2,064 179 40 15,780
Retail other 7,645 790 49 32 871 130 17 8,663
Corporate loans 16,550 2,905 6 108 3,019 1,464 — 21,033
Total loans and advances at amortised cost 179,827 22,462 2,136 802 25,400 3,425 57 208,709
Debt securities at amortised cost 17,911 75 — — 75 — — 17,986
Total loans and advances at amortised cost
including debt securities 197,738 22,537 2,136 802 25,475 3,425 57 226,695
Impairment allowance
Retail mortgages 30 41 13 7 61 55 — 146
Retail credit cards 219 407 17 16 440 91 — 750
Retail other 119 70 15 16 101 112 — 332
Corporate loans 65 76 1 — 77 237 — 379
Total loans and advances at amortised cost 433 594 46 39 679 495 — 1607
Debt securities at amortised cost 3 — — — — — — 3
Total loans and advances at amortised cost
including debt securities 436 594 46 39 679 495 — 1,610
Net exposure
Retail mortgages 142,105 16,740 2,021 624 19,385 1,597 — 163,087
Retail credit cards 13,278 1,579 30 15 1,624 88 40 15,030
Retail other 7,526 720 34 16 770 18 17 8,331
Corporate loans 16,485 2,829 5 108 2,942 1,227 — 20,654
Total loans and advances at amortised cost 179,394 21,868 2,090 763 24,721 2,930 57 207,102
Debt securities at amortised cost 17,908 75 — — 75 — — 17,983
Total loans and advances at amortised cost
including debt securities 197,302 21,943 2,090 763 24,796 2,930 57 225,085
Coverage ratio % % % % % % % %
Retail mortgages — 0.2 0.6 1.1 0.3 3.3 — 0.1
Retail credit cards 1.6 20.5 36.2 51.6 21.3 50.8 — 4.8
Retail other 1.6 8.9 30.6 50.0 11.6 86.2 — 3.8
Corporate loans 0.4 2.6 16.7 — 2.6 16.2 — 1.8
Total loans and advances at amortised cost 0.2 2.6 2.2 4.9 2.7 14.5 — 0.8
Debt securities at amortised cost — — — — — — — —
Total loans and advances at amortised cost
including debt securities 0.2 2.6 2.2 4.9 2.7 14.5 — 0.7
Note
1 Other financial assets subject to impairment excluded in the table above include cash collateral and settlement balances, reverse repurchase agreements
and other similar secured lending, financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income and other assets. These have a total gross exposure of
£39.4bn and an impairment allowance of £2m. This comprises £2m on £39.1bn Stage 1 exposure, £0m on £0.2bn Stage 2 exposure and £0m on £0m
Stage 3 exposure. Loan commitments and financial guarantee contracts have total impairment allowance of £16m.

[PAGE 87]

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk
Stage 2
Stage 3
Not past <=30 days >30 days excluding Stage 3
As at 31 December 2023 Stage 1 due past due past due Total POCI POCI Total1
Gross exposure £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Retail mortgages 142,906 16,492 1,957 632 19,081 1,709 — 163,696
Retail credit cards 8,094 2,040 53 35 2,128 198 — 10,420
Retail other 3,476 848 50 29 927 148 — 4,551
Corporate loans 19,881 4,318 13 4 4,335 1,320 — 25,536
Total loans and advances at amortised cost 174,357 23,698 2,073 700 26,471 3,375 — 204,203
Debt securities at amortised cost 17,639 158 — — 158 — — 17,797
Total loans and advances at amortised cost
including debt securities 191,996 23,856 2,073 700 26,629 3,375 — 222,000
Impairment allowance
Retail mortgages 39 50 17 10 77 107 — 223
Retail credit cards 111 452 21 19 492 107 — 710
Retail other 38 76 16 16 108 113 — 259
Corporate loans 107 104 1 — 105 252 — 464
Total loans and advances at amortised cost 295 682 55 45 782 579 — 1,656
Debt securities at amortised cost 3 — — — — — — 3
Total loans and advances at amortised cost
including debt securities 298 682 55 45 782 579 — 1,659
Net exposure
Retail mortgages 142,867 16,442 1,940 622 19,004 1,602 — 163,473
Retail credit cards 7,983 1,588 32 16 1,636 91 — 9,710
Retail other 3,438 772 34 13 819 35 — 4,292
Corporate loans 19,774 4,214 12 4 4,230 1,068 — 25,072
Total loans and advances at amortised cost 174,062 23,016 2,018 655 25,689 2,796 — 202,547
Debt securities at amortised cost 17,636 158 — — 158 — — 17,794
Total loans and advances at amortised cost
including debt securities 191,698 23,174 2,018 655 25,847 2,796 — 220,341
Coverage ratio % % % % % % % %
Retail mortgages — 0.3 0.9 1.6 0.4 6.3 — 0.1
Retail credit cards 1.4 22.2 39.6 54.3 23.1 54.0 — 6.8
Retail other 1.1 9.0 32.0 55.2 11.7 76.4 — 5.7
Corporate loans 0.5 2.4 7.7 — 2.4 19.1 — 1.8
Total loans and advances at amortised cost 0.2 2.9 2.7 6.4 3.0 17.2 — 0.8
Debt securities at amortised cost — — — — — — — —
Total loans and advances at amortised cost
including debt securities 0.2 2.9 2.7 6.4 2.9 17.2 — 0.7
Note
1 Other financial assets subject to impairment excluded in the table above include cash collateral and settlement balances, reverse repurchase agreements and
other similar secured lending, financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income and other assets. These have a total gross exposure of
£29.8bn and an impairment allowance of £3m. This comprises £2m on £29.4bn Stage 1 exposure, £1m on £0.4bn Stage 2 exposure and £0m on £0m Stage
3 exposure. Loan commitments and financial guarantee contracts have total impairment allowance of £27m.
Movement in gross exposure and impairment allowance including provisions for loan commitments and
financial guarantees (audited)
The following tables present a reconciliation of the opening to the closing balance of the exposure and impairment allowance.
Transfers between stages in the tables have been reflected as if they had taken place at the beginning of the year. 'Net drawdowns,
repayments, net re-measurement and movements due to exposure and risk parameter changes' includes additional drawdowns and partial
repayments from existing facilities. Additionally, the below tables do not include other financial assets subject to impairment such as debt
securities at amortised cost, reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending, cash collateral and settlement balances,
financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income and other assets.
The movements are measured over a 12-month period.

[PAGE 88]

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk
Loans and advances at amortised cost (audited)
Stage 3 excluding
Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI Total
POCI
Barclays Bank UK Group Gross ECL Gross ECL Gross ECL Gross ECL Gross ECL
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Retail mortgages
As at 1 January 2024 142,943 39 19,081 77 1,709 107 — — 163,733 223
Transfers from Stage 1 to Stage 2 (9,782) (4) 9,782 4 — — — — — —
Transfers from Stage 2 to Stage 1 6,501 26 (6,501) (26) — — — — — —
Transfers to Stage 3 (307) — (499) (7) 806 7 — — — —
Transfers from Stage 3 63 2 131 1 (194) (3) — — — —
Business activity in the year 22,249 8 791 4 4 — — — 23,044 12
Refinements to models used for calculation — — — — — — — — — —
Net drawdowns, repayments, net re-
measurement and movements due to exposure (7,493) (37) (915) 29 (121) (16) — — (8,529) (24)
and risk parameter changes
Final repayments (11,787) (3) (2,055) (10) (308) (21) — — (14,150) (34)
Disposals1 (234) (1) (369) (11) (238) (13) — — (841) (25)
Write-offs — — — — (6) (6) — — (6) (6)
As at 31 December 2024 142,153 30 19,446 61 1,652 55 — — 163,251 146
Retail credit cards
As at 1 January 2024 8,094 111 2,128 492 198 107 — — 10,420 710
Transfers from Stage 1 to Stage 2 (590) (14) 590 14 — — — — — —
Transfers from Stage 2 to Stage 1 763 141 (763) (141) — — — — — —
Transfers to Stage 3 (86) (3) (203) (77) 289 80 — — — —
Transfers from Stage 3 15 4 17 5 (32) (9) — — — —
Business activity in the year2 5,710 152 194 60 12 11 40 — 5,956 223
Refinements to models used for calculation3 — — — (31) — — — — — (31)
Net drawdowns, repayments, net re-
measurement and movements due to exposure (381) (171) 110 121 34 168 — — (237) 118
and risk parameter changes
Final repayments (28) (1) (9) (3) (4) (2) — — (41) (6)
Disposals1 — — — — (155) (101) — — (155) (101)
Write-offs — — — — (163) (163) — — (163) (163)
As at 31 December 2024 13,497 219 2,064 440 179 91 40 — 15,780 750
Retail other
As at 1 January 2024 3,476 38 927 108 148 113 — — 4,551 259
Transfers from Stage 1 to Stage 2 (322) (5) 322 5 — — — — — —
Transfers from Stage 2 to Stage 1 320 25 (320) (25) — — — — — —
Transfers to Stage 3 (47) (1) (89) (28) 136 29 — — — —
Transfers from Stage 3 1 1 4 4 (5) (5) — — — —
Business activity in the year2 5,936 100 214 27 22 20 17 — 6,189 147
Refinements to models used for calculation — — — — — — — — — —
Net drawdowns, repayments, net re-
measurement and movements due to exposure (933) (33) (127) 14 (23) 79 — — (1,083) 60
and risk parameter changes
Final repayments (786) (6) (60) (4) (28) (16) — — (874) (26)
Disposals1 — — — — (46) (34) — — (46) (34)
Write-offs — — — — (74) (74) — — (74) (74)
As at 31 December 2024 7,645 119 871 101 130 112 17 — 8,663 332
Notes
1 The £841m of gross disposals reported within Retail mortgages relate to transfer of facilities to a non-consolidated SPV for the purpose of securitisation. The
£155m of gross disposals reported within Retail credit cards and £46m of gross disposals reported within Retail other relate to debt sales undertaken during
the year.
2 Business activity in the year reported within Retail credit cards and Retail other includes the acquisition of Tesco Bank, comprising £4.2bn of credit card
receivables and £4.1bn of unsecured personal loans.
3 Refinements to models used for calculation include a £(31)m movement in calculated ECL for the UK Cards portfolio. These reflect model enhancements
made during the year. Barclays Bank UK Group continually review the output of models to determine accuracy of the ECL calculation including review of
model monitoring, external benchmarking and experience of model operation over an extended period of time. This help to ensure that the models used
continue to reflect the risks inherent across the businesses.

[PAGE 89]

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk
Loans and advances at amortised cost (audited)
Stage 3 excluding
Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI Total
POCI
Barclays Bank UK Group Gross ECL Gross ECL Gross ECL Gross ECL Gross ECL
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Corporate loans
As at 1 January 2024 19,292 107 4,335 105 1,320 252 — — 24,947 464
Transfers from Stage 1 to Stage 2 (1,224) (13) 1,224 13 — — — — — —
Transfers from Stage 2 to Stage 1 1,218 33 (1,218) (33) — — — — — —
Transfers to Stage 3 (669) (5) (500) (16) 1,169 21 — — — —
Transfers from Stage 3 127 13 206 17 (333) (30) — — — —
Business activity in the year 1,760 6 86 2 232 7 — — 2,078 15
Refinements to models used for calculation1 — (24) — (9) — — — — — (33)
Net drawdowns, repayments, net re-
measurement and movements due to exposure (1,921) (46) (729) 5 (637) 70 — — (3,287) 29
and risk parameter changes2
Final repayments (2,437) (6) (385) (7) (221) (17) — — (3,043) (30)
Disposals — — — — — — — — — —
Write-offs — — — — (66) (66) — — (66) (66)
As at 31 December 2024 16,146 65 3,019 77 1,464 237 — — 20,629 379
Reconciliation of ECL movement to credit impairment charge/(release) for the year ended 31 December 2024
Stage 3
Stage 1 Stage 2 excluding Stage 3 POCI Total
POCI
£m £m £m £m £m
Retail mortgages (8) (5) (33) — (46)
Retail credit cards 108 (52) 248 — 304
Retail other 81 (7) 107 — 181
Corporate loans (42) (28) 51 — (19)
ECL movement excluding disposals and write-offs3 139 (92) 373 — 420
ECL movement on loan commitments and financial guarantees (3) (8) — — (11)
ECL movement on other financial assets — (1) — — (1)
ECL movement on debt securities at amortised cost — — — — —
Recoveries and reimbursements4 (1) (3) (48) — (52)
Total exchange and other adjustments (4)
Total credit impairment charge for the year 352
Notes
1 Refinements to models used for calculation include a £(33)m movement in calculated ECL for the ESHLA portfolio. These reflect model enhancements made
during the year. Barclays Bank UK Group continually review the output of models to determine accuracy of the ECL calculation including review of model
monitoring, external benchmarking and experience of model operation over an extended period of time. This help to ensure that the models used continue
to reflect the risks inherent across the businesses.
2 ‘Net drawdowns, repayments, net re-measurement and movements due to exposure and risk parameter changes’ reported within Corporate loans also
include assets of £2.7bn de-recognised due to payment received on defaulted loans from government guarantees issued under the Government’s Bounce
Back Loans Scheme.
3 In 2024, gross write-offs amounted to £309m and post write-off recoveries amounted to £48m. Net write-offs represent gross write-offs less post write-off
recoveries and amounted to £261m.
4 Recoveries and reimbursements include post write off recoveries of £4m and reimbursements expected to be received under the arrangement where
Barclays Bank UK Group has entered into financial guarantee contracts which provide credit protection over certain assets with third parties of £48m.

[PAGE 90]

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk
Loan commitments and financial guarantees (audited)
Stage 3 excluding
Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI Total
POCI
Barclays Bank UK Group Gross ECL Gross ECL Gross ECL Gross ECL Gross ECL
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Retail mortgages
As at 1 January 2024 7,734 — 446 — 3 — — — 8,183 —
Net transfers between stages (47) — 41 — 6 — — — — —
Business activity in the year 8,048 — — — — — — — 8,048 —
Net drawdowns and repayments, net re-
measurement and movement due to exposure (4,320) — (106) — (7) — — — (4,433) —
and risk parameter changes
Limit management and final repayments (341) — (43) — (1) — — — (385) —
As at 31 December 2024 11,074 — 338 — 1 — — — 11,413 —
Retail credit cards
As at 1 January 2024 33,465 11 1,041 16 134 — — — 34,640 27
Net transfers between stages (258) 5 178 (5) 80 — — — — —
Business activity in the year 15,887 2 66 2 1 — 6 — 15,960 4
Net drawdowns and repayments, net re-
measurement and movement due to exposure (13) (8) (393) (1) (79) — — — (485) (9)
and risk parameter changes
Limit management and final repayments (641) (2) (25) (5) (21) — — — (687) (7)
As at 31 December 2024 48,440 8 867 7 115 — 6 — 49,428 15
Retail other
As at 1 January 2024 4,300 — 414 — 11 — — — 4,725 —
Net transfers between stages 26 — (31) — 5 — — — — —
Business activity in the year 4 — — — — — — — 4 —
Net drawdowns and repayments, net re-
measurement and movement due to exposure (511) — (50) — (7) — — — (568) —
and risk parameter changes
Limit management and final repayments (269) — — — — — — — (269) —
As at 31 December 2024 3,550 — 333 — 9 — — — 3,892 —
Corporate loans
As at 1 January 2024 2,554 — 337 — 42 — — — 2,933 —
Net transfers between stages (19) — (9) — 28 — — — — —
Business activity in the year 40 — 14 1 — — — — 54 1
Net drawdowns and repayments, net re-
measurement and movement due to exposure (22) — (13) — (7) — — — (42) —
and risk parameter changes
Limit management and final repayments (9) — — — — — — — (9) —
As at 31 December 2024 2,544 — 329 1 63 — — — 2,936 1

[PAGE 91]

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk
Loans and advances at amortised cost (audited)
Stage 3 excluding
Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI Total
POCI
Barclays Bank UK PLC Gross ECL Gross ECL Gross ECL Gross ECL Gross ECL
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Retail mortgages
As at 1 January 2024 142,906 39 19,081 77 1,709 107 — — 163,696 223
Transfers from Stage 1 to Stage 2 (9,782) (4) 9,782 4 — — — — — —
Transfers from Stage 2 to Stage 1 6,501 26 (6,501) (26) — — — — — —
Transfers to Stage 3 (307) — (499) (7) 806 7 — — — —
Transfers from Stage 3 63 2 131 1 (194) (3) — — — —
Business activity in the year 22,249 8 791 4 4 — — — 23,044 12
Refinements to models used for calculation — — — — — — — — — —
Net drawdowns, repayments, net re-
measurement and movements due to exposure (7,474) (37) (915) 29 (121) (16) — — (8,510) (24)
and risk parameter changes
Final repayments (11,787) (3) (2,055) (10) (308) (21) — — (14,150) (34)
Disposals1 (234) (1) (369) (11) (238) (13) — — (841) (25)
Write-offs — — — — (6) (6) — — (6) (6)
As at 31 December 2024 142,135 30 19,446 61 1,652 55 — — 163,233 146
Retail credit cards
As at 1 January 2024 8,094 111 2,128 492 198 107 — — 10,420 710
Transfers from Stage 1 to Stage 2 (590) (14) 590 14 — — — — — —
Transfers from Stage 2 to Stage 1 763 141 (763) (141) — — — — — —
Transfers to Stage 3 (86) (3) (203) (77) 289 80 — — — —
Transfers from Stage 3 15 4 17 5 (32) (9) — — — —
Business activity in the year2 5,710 152 194 60 12 11 40 — 5,956 223
Refinements to models used for calculation3 — — — (31) — — — — — (31)
Net drawdowns, repayments, net re-
measurement and movements due to exposure (381) (171) 110 121 34 168 — — (237) 118
and risk parameter changes
Final repayments (28) (1) (9) (3) (4) (2) — — (41) (6)
Disposals1 — — — — (155) (101) — — (155) (101)
Write-offs — — — — (163) (163) — — (163) (163)
As at 31 December 2024 13,497 219 2,064 440 179 91 40 — 15,780 750
Retail other
As at 1 January 2024 3,476 38 927 108 148 113 — — 4,551 259
Transfers from Stage 1 to Stage 2 (322) (5) 322 5 — — — — — —
Transfers from Stage 2 to Stage 1 320 25 (320) (25) — — — — — —
Transfers to Stage 3 (47) (2) (89) (27) 136 29 — — — —
Transfers from Stage 3 1 1 4 4 (5) (5) — — — —
Business activity in the year2 5,936 100 214 27 22 20 17 — 6,189 147
Refinements to models used for calculation — — — — — — — — — —
Net drawdowns, repayments, net re-
measurement and movements due to exposure (933) (32) (127) 13 (23) 79 — — (1,083) 60
and risk parameter changes
Final repayments (786) (6) (60) (4) (28) (16) — — (874) (26)
Disposals1 — — — — (46) (34) — — (46) (34)
Write-offs — — — — (74) (74) — — (74) (74)
As at 31 December 2024 7,645 119 871 101 130 112 17 — 8,663 332
Notes
1 The £841m of gross disposals reported within Retail mortgages relate to transfer of facilities to a non-consolidated SPV for the purpose of securitisation. The
£155m of gross disposals reported within Retail credit cards and £46m of gross disposals reported within Retail other relate to debt sales undertaken during
the year.
2 Business activity in the year reported within Retail credit cards and Retail other includes the acquisition of Tesco Bank of £4.2bn in credit card receivables and
£4.1bn in unsecured personal loans.
3 Refinements to models used for calculation include a £(31)m movement in the calculated ECL for the UK Cards. These reflect model enhancements made
during the year. Barclays Bank UK PLC continually review the output of models to determine accuracy of the ECL calculation including review of model
monitoring, external benchmarking and experience of model operation over an extended period of time. This help to ensures that the models used continue
to reflect the risks inherent across the businesses.

[PAGE 92]

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk
Stage 3 excluding
Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI Total
POCI
Barclays Bank UK PLC Gross ECL Gross ECL Gross ECL Gross ECL Gross ECL
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Corporate loans
As at 1 January 2024 19,881 107 4,335 105 1,320 252 — — 25,536 464
Transfers from Stage 1 to Stage 2 (1,224) (13) 1,224 13 — — — — — —
Transfers from Stage 2 to Stage 1 1,218 33 (1,218) (33) — — — — — —
Transfers to Stage 3 (669) (5) (500) (16) 1,169 21 — — — —
Transfers from Stage 3 127 13 206 17 (333) (30) — — — —
Business activity in the year 1,690 6 86 2 232 7 — — 2,008 15
Refinements to models used for calculation1 — (24) — (9) — — — — — (33)
Net drawdowns, repayments, net re-
measurement and movements due to exposure (1,881) (46) (729) 5 (637) 70 — — (3,247) 29
and risk parameter changes2
Final repayments (2,592) (6) (385) (7) (221) (17) — — (3,198) (30)
Disposals — — — — — — — — — —
Write-offs — — — — (66) (66) — — (66) (66)
As at 31 December 2024 16,550 65 3,019 77 1,464 237 — — 21,033 379
Reconciliation of ECL movement to credit impairment charge/(release) for the year ended 31 December 2024
Stage 3
Stage 1 Stage 2 excluding Stage 3 POCI Total
POCI
£m £m £m £m £m
Retail mortgages (8) (5) (33) — (46)
Retail credit cards 108 (52) 248 — 304
Retail other 81 (7) 107 — 181
Corporate loans (42) (28) 51 — (19)
ECL movement excluding disposals and write-offs3 139 (92) 373 — 420
ECL movement on loan commitments and financial guarantees (3) (8) — — (11)
ECL movement on other financial assets — (1) — — (1)
ECL movement on debt securities at amortised cost — — — — —
Recoveries and reimbursements4 (1) (3) (48) — (52)
Total exchange and other adjustments (4)
Total credit impairment charge for the year 352
Notes
1 Refinements to models used for calculation include a £(33)m movement in the calculated ECL for the ESHLA portfolio. These reflect model enhancements
made during the year. Barclays Bank UK PLC continually review the output of models to determine accuracy of the ECL calculation including review of model
monitoring, external benchmarking and experience of model operation over an extended period of time. This help to ensures that the models used continue
to reflect the risks inherent across the businesses.
2 ‘Net drawdowns, repayments, net re-measurement and movements due to exposure and risk parameter changes’ reported within Corporate loans also
include assets of £2.7bn de-recognised due to payment received on defaulted loans from government guarantees issued under the Government’s Bounce
Back Loans Scheme.
3 In 2024, gross write-offs amounted to £309m and post write-off recoveries amounted to £48m. Net write-offs represent gross write-offs less post write-off
recoveries and amounted to £261m.
4 Recoveries and reimbursements include post write off recoveries of £4m and reimbursements expected to be received under the arrangement where
Barclays Bank UK PLC has entered into financial guarantee contracts which provide credit protection over certain assets with third parties of £48m.

[PAGE 93]

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk
Loan commitments and financial guarantees (audited)
Stage 3 excluding
Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI Total
POCI
Barclays Bank UK PLC Gross ECL Gross ECL Gross ECL Gross ECL Gross ECL
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Retail mortgages
As at 1 January 2024 7,560 — 446 — 3 — — — 8,009 —
Net transfers between stages (47) — 41 — 6 — — — — —
Business activity in the year 7,662 — — — — — — — 7,662 —
Net drawdowns and repayments, net re-
measurement and movement due to exposure (4,145) — (106) — (7) — — — (4,258) —
and risk parameter changes
Limit management and final repayments (341) — (43) — (1) — — — (385) —
As at 31 December 2024 10,689 — 338 — 1 — — — 11,028 —
Retail credit cards
As at 1 January 2024 33,465 11 1,041 16 134 — — — 34,640 27
Net transfers between stages (258) 5 178 (5) 80 — — — — —
Business activity in the year 15,887 2 66 2 1 — 6 — 15,960 4
Net drawdowns and repayments, net re-
measurement and movement due to exposure (13) (8) (393) (1) (79) — — — (485) (9)
and risk parameter changes
Limit management and final repayments (641) (2) (25) (5) (21) — — — (687) (7)
As at 31 December 2024 48,440 8 867 7 115 — 6 — 49,428 15
Retail other
As at 1 January 2024 4,300 — 414 — 11 — — — 4,725 —
Net transfers between stages 26 — (31) — 5 — — — — —
Business activity in the year 4 — — — — — — — 4 —
Net drawdowns and repayments, net re-
measurement and movement due to exposure (511) — (50) — (7) — — — (568) —
and risk parameter changes
Limit management and final repayments (269) — — — — — — — (269) —
As at 31 December 2024 3,550 — 333 — 9 — — — 3,892 —
Corporate loans
As at 1 January 2024 2,554 — 337 — 42 — — — 2,933 —
Net transfers between stages (19) — (9) — 28 — — — — —
Business activity in the year 40 — 14 1 — — — — 54 1
Net drawdowns and repayments, net re-
measurement and movement due to exposure (22) — (13) — (7) — — — (42) —
and risk parameter changes
Limit management and final repayments (9) — — — — — — — (9) —
As at 31 December 2024 2,544 — 329 1 63 — — — 2,936 1

[PAGE 94]

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk
Loans and advances at amortised cost (audited)
Stage 3 excluding
Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI Total
POCI
Barclays Bank UK Group Gross ECL Gross ECL Gross ECL Gross ECL Gross ECL
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Retail mortgages
As at 1 January 2023 143,214 17 17,838 48 1,436 58 — — 162,488 123
Transfers from Stage 1 to Stage 2 (9,283) (2) 9,283 2 — — — — — —
Transfers from Stage 2 to Stage 1 5,959 15 (5,959) (15) — — — — — —
Transfers to Stage 3 (368) — (473) (7) 841 7 — — — —
Transfers from Stage 3 16 1 95 1 (111) (2) — — — —
Business activity in the year1 22,991 12 978 7 26 11 — — 23,995 30
Refinements to models used for calculation — — — — — — — — — —
Net drawdowns, repayments, net re-
measurement and movements due to exposure (8,990) — (1,036) 49 (238) 48 — — (10,264) 97
and risk parameter changes
Final repayments (10,071) (2) (1,641) (8) (240) (12) — — (11,952) (22)
Disposals2 (525) (2) (4) — (2) — — — (531) (2)
Write-offs — — — — (3) (3) — — (3) (3)
As at 31 December 2023 142,943 39 19,081 77 1,709 107 — — 163,733 223
Retail credit cards
As at 1 January 2023 7,119 127 2,569 493 251 137 — — 9,939 757
Transfers from Stage 1 to Stage 2 (891) (26) 891 26 — — — — — —
Transfers from Stage 2 to Stage 1 1,344 216 (1,344) (216) — — — — — —
Transfers to Stage 3 (121) (4) (244) (82) 365 86 — — — —
Transfers from Stage 3 44 27 25 14 (69) (41) — — — —
Business activity in the year 847 15 101 36 5 5 — — 953 56
Refinements to models used for calculation3 — (1) — 52 — 37 — — — 88
Net drawdowns, repayments, net re-
measurement and movements due to exposure (122) (237) 170 177 (27) 145 — — 21 85
and risk parameter changes
Final repayments (126) (6) (40) (8) (24) (18) — — (190) (32)
Disposals2 — — — — (159) (100) — — (159) (100)
Write-offs — — — — (144) (144) — — (144) (144)
As at 31 December 2023 8,094 111 2,128 492 198 107 — — 10,420 710
Retail other
As at 1 January 2023 4,026 42 896 125 163 111 — — 5,085 278
Transfers from Stage 1 to Stage 2 (443) (8) 443 8 — — — — — —
Transfers from Stage 2 to Stage 1 276 25 (276) (25) — — — — — —
Transfers to Stage 3 (66) (2) (92) (32) 158 34 — — — —
Transfers from Stage 3 10 2 6 4 (16) (6) — — — —
Business activity in the year 1,279 12 158 17 18 14 — — 1,455 43
Refinements to models used for calculation — — — — — — — — — —
Net drawdowns, repayments, net re-
measurement and movements due to exposure (994) (29) (157) 15 (18) 89 — — (1,169) 75
and risk parameter changes
Final repayments (612) (4) (51) (4) (31) (18) — — (694) (26)
Disposals2 — — — — (49) (34) — — (49) (34)
Write-offs — — — — (77) (77) — — (77) (77)
As at 31 December 2023 3,476 38 927 108 148 113 — — 4,551 259
Notes
1 Business activity in the year reported within Retail mortgages includes the acquisition of Kensington Mortgage Company of £2.4bn.
2 The £531m of gross disposals reported within Retail mortgages relate to transfer of facilities to a non-consolidated special purpose vehicle for the purpose of
securitisation. The £159m of gross disposals reported within Retail credit cards and £49m of gross disposals reported within Retail other relate to debt sales
undertaken during the year.
3 Refinements to models used for calculation include a £88m movement in UK Cards. These reflect model enhancements made during the year. Barclays Bank
UK Group continually review the output of models to determine accuracy of the ECL calculation including review of model monitoring, external
benchmarking and experience of model operation over an extended period of time. This ensures that the models used continue to reflect the risks inherent
across the businesses.

[PAGE 95]

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk
Loans and advances at amortised cost (audited)
Stage 3 excluding
Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI Total
POCI
Barclays Bank UK Group Gross ECL Gross ECL Gross ECL Gross ECL Gross ECL
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Corporate loans
As at 1 January 2023 20,901 153 6,334 149 1,632 249 — — 28,867 551
Transfers from Stage 1 to Stage 2 (1,625) (16) 1,625 16 — — — — — —
Transfers from Stage 2 to Stage 1 2,104 55 (2,104) (55) — — — — — —
Transfers to Stage 3 (429) (3) (637) (11) 1,066 14 — — — —
Transfers from Stage 3 127 16 206 19 (333) (35) — — — —
Business activity in the year 2,523 7 87 2 166 16 — — 2,776 25
Refinements to models used for calculation — — — — — — — — — —
Net drawdowns, repayments, net re-
measurement and movements due to exposure (984) (99) (863) (8) (1,016) 92 — — (2,863) (15)
and risk parameter changes1
Final repayments (3,325) (6) (313) (7) (124) (13) — — (3,762) (26)
Disposals — — — — — — — — — —
Write-offs — — — — (71) (71) — — (71) (71)
As at 31 December 2023 19,292 107 4,335 105 1,320 252 — — 24,947 464
Reconciliation of ECL movement to credit impairment charge/(release) for the year ended 31 December 2023
Stage 3
Stage 1 Stage 2 excluding Stage 3 POCI Total
POCI
£m £m £m £m £m
Retail mortgages 24 29 52 — 105
Retail credit cards (16) (1) 214 — 197
Retail other (4) (17) 113 — 92
Corporate loans (46) (44) 74 — (16)
ECL movement excluding disposals and write-offs2 (42) (33) 453 — 378
ECL movement on loan commitments and financial guarantees 2 (22) — — (20)
ECL movement on other financial assets (1) — — — (1)
ECL movement on debt securities at amortised cost 1 — — — 1
Recoveries and reimbursements3 (2) (3) (28) — (33)
Total exchange and other adjustments (17)
Total credit impairment charge for the year 308
Notes
1 ‘Net drawdowns, repayments, net re-measurement and movements due to exposure and risk parameter changes’ reported within Corporate loans also
include assets of £0.8bn de-recognised due to payment received on defaulted loans from government guarantees issued under the Government’s Bounce
Back Loans Scheme.
2 In 2023, gross write-offs amounted to £295m and post write-off recoveries amounted to £28m. Net write-offs represent gross write-offs less post write-off
recoveries and amounted to £267m.
3 Recoveries and reimbursements include post write off recoveries of £28m and reimbursements expected to be received under the arrangement where
Barclays Bank UK Group has entered into financial guarantee contracts which provide credit protection over certain assets with third parties of £5m.

[PAGE 96]

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk
Loan commitments and financial guarantees (audited)
Stage 3 excluding
Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI Total
POCI
Barclays Bank UK Group Gross ECL Gross ECL Gross ECL Gross ECL Gross ECL
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Retail mortgages
As at 1 January 2023 11,653 — 448 — 2 — — — 12,103 —
Net transfers between stages (62) — 53 — 9 — — — — —
Business activity in the year 4,159 — — — — — — — 4,159 —
Net drawdowns and repayments, net re-
measurement and movement due to (7,672) — (11) — (8) — — — (7,691) —
exposure and risk parameter changes
Limit management and final repayments (344) — (44) — — — — — (388) —
As at 31 December 2023 7,734 — 446 — 3 — — — 8,183 —
Retail credit cards
As at 1 January 2023 33,813 9 3,387 38 221 — — — 37,421 47
Net transfers between stages 1,880 30 (1,961) (30) 81 — — — — —
Business activity in the year 1,695 4 41 2 1 — — — 1,737 6
Net drawdowns and repayments, net re-
measurement and movement due to (1,442) (30) (328) 16 (93) — — — (1,863) (14)
exposure and risk parameter changes
Limit management and final repayments (2,481) (2) (98) (10) (76) — — — (2,655) (12)
As at 31 December 2023 33,465 11 1,041 16 134 — — — 34,640 27
Retail other
As at 1 January 2023 5,402 — 437 — 15 — — — 5,854 —
Net transfers between stages (46) — 41 — 5 — — — — —
Business activity in the year 21 — — — — — — — 21 —
Net drawdowns and repayments, net re-
measurement and movement due to (837) — (64) — (9) — — — (910) —
exposure and risk parameter changes
Limit management and final repayments (240) — — — — — — — (240) —
As at 31 December 2023 4,300 — 414 — 11 — — — 4,725 —
Corporate loans
As at 1 January 2023 3,034 — 417 — 53 — — — 3,504 —
Net transfers between stages 19 — (30) — 11 — — — — —
Business activity in the year 4 — — — — — — — 4 —
Net drawdowns and repayments, net re-
measurement and movement due to (433) — (50) — (22) — — — (505) —
exposure and risk parameter changes
Limit management and final repayments (70) — — — — — — — (70) —
As at 31 December 2023 2,554 — 337 — 42 — — — 2,933 —

[PAGE 97]

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk
Loans and advances at amortised cost (audited)
Stage 3 excluding
Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI Total
POCI
Barclays Bank UK PLC Gross ECL Gross ECL Gross ECL Gross ECL Gross ECL
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Retail mortgages
As at 1 January 2023 143,169 17 17,838 48 1,436 58 — — 162,443 123
Transfers from Stage 1 to Stage 2 (9,283) (2) 9,283 2 — — — — — —
Transfers from Stage 2 to Stage 1 5,959 15 (5,959) (15) — — — — — —
Transfers to Stage 3 (368) — (473) (8) 841 8 — — — —
Transfers from Stage 3 16 1 95 1 (111) (2) — — — —
Business activity in the year1 22,991 12 978 7 26 11 — — 23,995 30
Refinements to models used for calculation — — — — — — — — — —
Net drawdowns, repayments, net re-
measurement and movements due to exposure (8,990) — (1,036) 50 (238) 47 — — (10,264) 97
and risk parameter changes
Final repayments (10,071) (2) (1,641) (8) (240) (12) — — (11,952) (22)
Disposals2 (517) (2) (4) — (2) — — — (523) (2)
Write-offs — — — — (3) (3) — — (3) (3)
As at 31 December 2023 142,906 39 19,081 77 1,709 107 — — 163,696 223
Retail credit cards
As at 1 January 2023 7,119 127 2,569 493 251 137 — — 9,939 757
Transfers from Stage 1 to Stage 2 (891) (26) 891 26 — — — — — —
Transfers from Stage 2 to Stage 1 1,344 216 (1,344) (216) — — — — — —
Transfers to Stage 3 (121) (4) (244) (82) 365 86 — — — —
Transfers from Stage 3 45 27 25 14 (70) (41) — — — —
Business activity in the year 847 15 101 36 5 5 — — 953 56
Refinements to models used for calculation3 — (1) — 52 — 37 — — — 88
Net drawdowns, repayments, net re-
measurement and movements due to exposure (123) (237) 170 177 (26) 145 — — 21 85
and risk parameter changes
Final repayments (126) (6) (40) (8) (24) (18) — — (190) (32)
Disposals2 — — — — (159) (100) — — (159) (100)
Write-offs — — — — (144) (144) — — (144) (144)
As at 31 December 2023 8,094 111 2,128 492 198 107 — — 10,420 710
Retail other
As at 1 January 2023 4,025 42 896 125 163 111 — — 5,084 278
Transfers from Stage 1 to Stage 2 (443) (8) 443 8 — — — — — —
Transfers from Stage 2 to Stage 1 276 25 (276) (25) — — — — — —
Transfers to Stage 3 (66) (2) (92) (32) 158 34 — — — —
Transfers from Stage 3 10 2 6 4 (16) (6) — — — —
Business activity in the year 1,279 12 158 17 18 14 — — 1,455 43
Refinements to models used for calculation — — — — — — — — — —
Net drawdowns, repayments, net re-
measurement and movements due to exposure (993) (29) (157) 15 (18) 89 — — (1,168) 75
and risk parameter changes
Final repayments (612) (4) (51) (4) (31) (18) — — (694) (26)
Disposals2 — — — — (49) (34) — — (49) (34)
Write-offs — — — — (77) (77) — — (77) (77)
As at 31 December 2023 3,476 38 927 108 148 113 — — 4,551 259
Notes
1 Business activity in the year reported within Retail mortgages includes the acquisition of Kensington Mortgage Company of £2.2bn.
2 The £523m of gross disposals reported within Retail mortgages relate to transfer of facilities to a non-consolidated special purpose vehicle for the purpose of
securitisation. The £159m of gross disposals reported within Retail credit cards and £49m of gross disposals reported within Retail other relate to debt sales
undertaken during the year.
3 Refinements to models used for calculation include a £88m movement in UK Cards, these reflect model enhancements made during the year. Barclays Bank
UK PLC continually review the output of models to determine accuracy of the ECL calculation including review of model monitoring, external benchmarking
and experience of model operation over an extended period of time. This ensures that the models used continue to reflect the risks inherent across the
businesses.

[PAGE 98]

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk
Loans and advances at amortised cost (audited)
Stage 3 excluding
Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI Total
POCI
Barclays Bank UK PLC Gross ECL Gross ECL Gross ECL Gross ECL Gross ECL
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Corporate loans
As at 1 January 2023 21,776 153 6,334 149 1,632 249 — — 29,742 551
Transfers from Stage 1 to Stage 2 (1,625) (16) 1,625 16 — — — — — —
Transfers from Stage 2 to Stage 1 2,104 55 (2,104) (55) — — — — — —
Transfers to Stage 3 (429) (3) (637) (11) 1,066 14 — — — —
Transfers from Stage 3 127 16 206 19 (333) (35) — — — —
Business activity in the year 2,723 7 87 2 166 16 — — 2,976 25
Refinements to models used for calculation — — — — — — — — — —
Net drawdowns, repayments, net re-
measurement and movements due to exposure (1,350) (99) (863) (8) (1,016) 92 — — (3,229) (15)
and risk parameter changes1
Final repayments (3,445) (6) (313) (7) (124) (13) — — (3,882) (26)
Disposals — — — — — — — — — —
Write-offs — — — — (71) (71) — — (71) (71)
As at 31 December 2023 19,881 107 4,335 105 1,320 252 — — 25,536 464
Reconciliation of ECL movement to credit impairment charge/(release) for the year ended 31 December 2023
Stage 3
Stage 1 Stage 2 excluding Stage 3 POCI Total
POCI
£m £m £m £m £m
Retail mortgages 24 29 52 — 105
Retail credit cards (16) (1) 214 — 197
Retail other (4) (17) 113 — 92
Corporate loans (46) (44) 74 — (16)
ECL movement excluding disposals and write-offs2 (42) (33) 453 — 378
ECL movement on loan commitments and financial guarantees 2 (22) — — (20)
ECL movement on other financial assets — — — — —
ECL movement on debt securities at amortised cost 1 — — — 1
Recoveries and reimbursements3 (2) (3) (27) — (32)
Total exchange and other adjustments (18)
Total credit impairment charge for the year 309
Notes
1 ‘Net drawdowns, repayments, net re-measurement and movements due to exposure and risk parameter changes’ reported within Corporate loans also
include assets of £0.8bn de-recognised due to payment received on defaulted loans from government guarantees issued under the Government’s Bounce
Back Loans Scheme.
2 In 2023, gross write-offs amounted to £295m and post write-off recoveries amounted to £27m. Net write-offs represent gross write-offs less post write-off
recoveries and amounted to £268m.
3 Recoveries and reimbursements include post write off recoveries of £27m and reimbursements expected to be received under the arrangement where
Barclays Bank UK PLC has entered into financial guarantee contracts which provide credit protection over certain assets with third parties of £5m.

[PAGE 99]

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk
Loan commitments and financial guarantees (audited)
Stage 3 excluding
Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI Total
POCI
Barclays Bank UK PLC Gross ECL Gross ECL Gross ECL Gross ECL Gross ECL
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Retail mortgages
As at 1 January 2023 11,653 — 448 — 2 — — — 12,103 —
Net transfers between stages (62) — 53 — 9 — — — — —
Business activity in the year 3,985 — — — — — — — 3,985 —
Net drawdowns and repayments, net re-
measurement and movement due to (7,672) — (11) — (8) — — — (7,691) —
exposure and risk parameter changes
Limit management and final repayments (344) — (44) — — — — — (388) —
As at 31 December 2023 7,560 — 446 — 3 — — — 8,009 —
Retail credit cards
As at 1 January 2023 33,813 9 3,387 38 221 — — — 37,421 47
Net transfers between stages 1,880 30 (1,961) (30) 81 — — — — —
Business activity in the year 1,695 4 41 2 1 — — — 1,737 6
Net drawdowns and repayments, net re-
measurement and movement due to (1,442) (30) (328) 16 (93) — — — (1,863) (14)
exposure and risk parameter changes
Limit management and final repayments (2,481) (2) (98) (10) (76) — — — (2,655) (12)
As at 31 December 2023 33,465 11 1,041 16 134 — — — 34,640 27
Retail other
As at 1 January 2023 5,402 — 437 — 15 — — — 5,854 —
Net transfers between stages (46) — 41 — 5 — — — — —
Business activity in the year 21 — — — — — — — 21 —
Net drawdowns and repayments, net re-
measurement and movement due to (837) — (64) — (9) — — — (910) —
exposure and risk parameter changes
Limit management and final repayments (240) — — — — — — — (240) —
As at 31 December 2023 4,300 — 414 — 11 — — — 4,725 —
Corporate loans
As at 1 January 2023 3,034 — 417 — 53 — — — 3,504 —
Net transfers between stages 19 — (30) — 11 — — — — —
Business activity in the year 4 — — — — — — — 4 —
Net drawdowns and repayments, net re-
measurement and movement due to (433) — (50) — (22) — — — (505) —
exposure and risk parameter changes
Limit management and final repayments (70) — — — — — — — (70) —
As at 31 December 2023 2,554 — 337 — 42 — — — 2,933 —

[PAGE 100]

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk
Stage 2 decomposition
Stage 2 exposures are predominantly identified using quantitative tests where the lifetime probability of default (PD) has deteriorated more
than a pre-determined amount since origination during the year. This is augmented by inclusion of accounts meeting the designated high
risk criteria (including watchlist) for the portfolio under the qualitative test.
A small number of other accounts (0.7% of impairment allowance and 2.9% of gross exposure) are included in Stage 2. These accounts are
not otherwise identified by the quantitative or qualitative tests but are more than 30 days past due. The percentage triggered by these
backstop criteria is a measure of the effectiveness of the Stage 2 criteria in identifying deterioration prior to delinquency.
Loans and advances at amortised cost1
Gross Exposure Impairment Allowance
Quantitative Qualitative 30 days past Quantitative Qualitative 30 days past
Barclays Bank UK Group test test due backstop Total Stage 2 test test due backstop Total Stage 2
As at 31 December 2024 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Retail mortgages 9,143 9,672 631 19,446 42 15 4 61
Retail credit cards 1,719 345 — 2,064 367 73 — 440
Retail other 668 196 7 871 88 12 1 101
Corporate loans 2,196 715 108 3,019 61 16 — 77
Total Stage 2 13,726 10,928 746 25,400 558 116 5 679
As at 31 December 2023 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Retail mortgages 8,904 9,564 613 19,081 49 22 6 77
Retail credit cards 1,798 330 — 2,128 416 76 — 492
Retail other 752 172 3 927 99 8 1 108
Corporate loans 3,573 758 4 4,335 92 13 — 105
Total Stage 2 15,027 10,824 620 26,471 656 119 7 782
Note
1 Where balances satisfy more than one of the above three criteria for determining a significant increase in credit risk, the corresponding gross exposure and
impairment allowance have been assigned in order of categories presented.
Stage 3 decomposition
Stage 3 comprises exposures that are considered to be credit impaired. An asset is considered credit impaired when one or more events
occur that have a detrimental impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset. This comprises assets defined as defaulted,
other individually assessed exposures and POCI as part of the Tesco Bank acquisition where imminent default or actual loss is identified.
Loans and advances at amortised cost
Gross Exposure Impairment Allowance
Stage 3 excluding POCI Stage 3 excluding POCI
Exposures Exposures
individually individually
Exposures assessed Exposures assessed
not or in not or in
charged- recovery Total charged- recovery Total
Barclays Bank UK Group off book Total POCI Stage 3 off book Total POCI Stage 3
As at 31 December 2024 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Retail mortgages 1,365 287 1,652 — 1,652 22 33 55 — 55
Retail credit cards 179 — 179 40 219 88 3 91 — 91
Retail other 90 40 130 17 147 68 44 112 — 112
Corporate loans 1,219 245 1,464 — 1,464 89 148 237 — 237
Total Stage 3 2,853 572 3,425 57 3,482 267 228 495 — 495
As at 31 December 2023 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Retail mortgages 1,408 301 1,709 — 1,709 63 44 107 — 107
Retail credit cards 198 — 198 — 198 107 — 107 — 107
Retail other 106 42 148 — 148 71 42 113 — 113
Corporate loans 1,099 221 1,320 — 1,320 117 135 252 — 252
Total Stage 3 2,811 564 3,375 — 3,375 358 221 579 — 579

[PAGE 101]

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk
Management adjustments to models for impairment (audited)
Management adjustments to impairment models are applied in order to factor in certain conditions or changes in policy that are not fully
incorporated into the impairment models, or to reflect additional facts and circumstances at the period end. Management adjustments are
reviewed and incorporated into future model development where applicable.
Management adjustments are captured through “Economic uncertainty” and “Other” adjustments, and are presented by product below:
Management adjustments to models for impairment allowance presented by product (audited)1
Proportion of
Management
Impairment adjustments
allowance pre Economic Total to total
management uncertainty Other Management impairment impairment
adjustments2 adjustments adjustments adjustments allowance3 allowance
Barclays Bank UK Group (a) (b) (a+b)
As at 31 December 2024 £m £m £m £m £m %
Retail mortgages 42 36 68 104 146 71.2
Retail credit cards 787 — (22) (22) 765 (2.9)
Retail other 257 — 75 75 332 22.6
Corporate loans 295 42 43 85 380 22.4
Total 1,381 78 164 242 1,623 14.9
Debt securities at amortised cost 3 — — — 3 —
Total including debt securities at amortised cost 1,384 78 164 242 1,626 14.9
As at 31 December 2023 £m £m £m £m £m %
Retail mortgages 45 57 121 178 223 79.8
Retail credit cards 701 45 (9) 36 737 4.9
Retail other 187 8 64 72 259 27.8
Corporate loans 358 71 35 106 464 22.8
Total 1,291 181 211 392 1,683 23.3
Debt securities at amortised cost 3 — — — 3 —
Total including debt securities at amortised cost 1,294 181 211 392 1,686 23.3
Economic uncertainty adjustments presented by stage (audited)
Barclays Bank UK Group Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total
As at 31 December 2024 £m £m £m £m
Retail mortgages 7 18 11 36
Retail credit cards — — — —
Retail other — — — —
Corporate loans 26 10 6 42
Total 33 28 17 78
Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total
As at 31 December 2023 £m £m £m £m
Retail mortgages 12 32 13 57
Retail credit cards 8 37 — 45
Retail other 2 6 — 8
Corporate loans 48 12 11 71
Total 70 87 24 181
Notes
1 Positive values reflect an increase in impairment allowance and negative values reflect a reduction in the impairment allowance.
2 Includes £1.0bn (2023: £1.1bn) of modelled ECL, £0.1bn (2023: £0.1bn) of individually assessed impairments and £0.3bn (2023: £0.1bn) of ECL from non-
modelled exposures and debt securities.
3 Total impairment allowance consists of ECL stock on drawn and undrawn exposure.

[PAGE 102]

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk
Economic uncertainty adjustments
Economic uncertainty adjustments continue to be captured in two ways. Firstly, customer uncertainty: the identification of customers and
clients who may be more vulnerable to economic instability; and secondly, model uncertainty: to capture the impact from model limitations
and sensitivities to specific macroeconomic parameters which are applied at a portfolio level.
The previously held uncertainty adjustments reflecting affordability concerns were reduced during the year, informed by lower inflationary
risk and a resilient credit performance in UK retail lending.
The balance as at 31 December 2024 is £78m (2023: £181m) and includes:
Customer and client uncertainty provisions of £53m (2023: £149m):
Retail mortgages £11m (2023: £25m): This adjustment reflects the risk of borrowers refinancing onto higher rates in the medium term
and was partially utilised during the year.
Retail credit cards £nil (2023: £45m) and Retail other £nil (2023: £8m): The previously held affordability linked adjustments in the UK
unsecured lending portfolio have been retired, supported by a resilient credit performance from UK customers, evidenced by continued low
and stable delinquencies.
Corporate loans £42m (2023: £71m): This adjustment reflects the possible cross default risk on Barclays Bank UK Group’s lending in
respect of clients who have taken bounce back loans and is partially reduced on account of the latest credit performance.
Model uncertainty provisions of £25m (2023: £32m):
Retail mortgages £25m (2023: £32m): This adjustment remediates the higher recovery expectations impacted by model oversensitivity to
certain macroeconomic variables and has reduced following the updated macroeconomic outlook.
Other adjustments
Other adjustments are operational in nature and are expected to remain in place until they can be reflected in the underlying models. These
adjustments result from data limitations and model performance related issues identified through model monitoring and other established
governance processes.
Other adjustments of £164m (2023: £211m) includes:
Adjustments for definition of default (DOD) under the Capital Requirements Regulation and model monitoring across products.
Retail mortgages £68m (2023: £121m): The reduction is driven by the adoption of a new LGD2 (Loss Given Default) model for the default
book and re-sizing of model monitoring adjustments.
Retail credit cards £(22)m (2023: £(9)m): The movement is driven by a model monitoring adjustment to correct for 12m PD over
prediction.
Retail other £75m (2023: £64m): The increase reflects a re-sizing of adjustments for model monitoring.
Corporate loans £43m (2023: £35m): Adjustments remain broadly stable compared to the previous year.

[PAGE 103]

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk
Climate risk ECL assessment
Barclays Bank UK Group performed a credit risk assessment of physical and transition risk due to climate change. This was delivered
through a combination of a scenario approach and targeted reviews on specific portfolios identified as more susceptible to climate risk.
Scenario Approach: The IFRS 9 Downside 2 scenario has been updated and aligned to the 2024 Internal Stress Test scenario which is
climate aware, ensuring that climate is being considered within the modelled ECL output via existing macroeconomic variables.
Specific Approach: The approach reviewed portfolios previously identified from both internal and external stress tests as more susceptible
to climate risks. In particular, new climate modelling techniques were utilised to inform customer level PD and LGD spreads of physical and
transition risk due to climate change for the UK Mortgages portfolio (both PD and LGD). The output of this review did not provide variances
in ECL deemed sufficiently certain to warrant raising an additional climate-related charge in 2024.
Barclays Bank UK Group acknowledges that impairment could increase over time as risks become more tangible and impact consumers
and clients through physical risks or via impacts from the transition to a low carbon economy. Therefore, Barclays Bank UK Group
continues to review credit risk outputs to determine if any additional physical or transition climate risks are identified that are not
sufficiently captured via model output.
Measurement uncertainty and sensitivity analysis
The measurement of modelled ECL involves complexity and judgement, including estimation of probabilities of default (PD), loss given
default (LGD), a range of unbiased future economic scenarios, estimation of expected lives, estimation of exposures at default (EAD) and
assessing significant increases in credit risk. The Barclays Bank UK Group uses a five-scenario model to calculate ECL. An external
consensus forecast is assembled from key sources, including HM Treasury (short and medium term forecasts) and Bloomberg (based on
median of economic forecasts), which forms the Baseline scenario. In addition, two adverse scenarios (Downside 1 and Downside 2) and
two favourable scenarios (Upside 1 and Upside 2) are derived, with associated probability weightings. The adverse scenarios are calibrated
to a broadly similar severity to the internal stress tests and stress scenarios provided by regulators whilst also considering IFRS 9 specific
sensitivities and non-linearity. The favourable scenarios are designed to reflect plausible upside risks to the Baseline scenario which are
broadly consistent with the economic narrative approved by the Senior Scenario Review Committee. All scenarios are regenerated at a
minimum semi-annually. The scenarios include key economic variables, (including GDP, unemployment, House Price Index (HPI) and base
rate), and expanded variables using statistical models based on historical correlations. The upside and downside shocks are designed to
evolve over a five-year stress horizon, with all five scenarios converging to a steady state after approximately seven years. The same
scenarios used in the estimation of expected credit losses are also used to inform the Barclays Bank UK Group's internal planning.
Scenarios used to calculate the Barclays Bank UK Group’s ECL charge were refreshed in Q424 with the Baseline scenario reflecting the latest
consensus macroeconomic forecasts available at the time of the scenario refresh. In the Baseline scenario, following an encouraging first
half of 2024, UK economic growth slowed in H224. However, it is further stimulated as restrictive monetary policy continues to loosen. GDP
growth in 2025 is expected to be 1.4%. Labour markets in major economies remain broadly resilient with unemployment rates relatively
close to historic lows and are only expected to increase moderately. The UK unemployment rate peaks at 4.5% in 2026 before returning to
4.4% for the reminder of the 5-year projection period. The Bank of England cuts rates three times by 25bp in 2025. As lower rates feed into
new mortgages, UK house prices stabilise and resume the upward trend from 2025.
The Downside 2 scenario has been broadly aligned to the Barclays Bank UK Group’s 2024 internal stress test which includes climate drivers.
Under this scenario, long-standing structural issues, restrictive monetary policy and persistent household affordability loss leads to a sharp
demand-driven economic contraction that precipitates into a severe global recession and disinflation process. The economic slowdown
leads to rising unemployment rates as lay-offs intensify. UK unemployment peaks at 8.4% during 2026. The combination of high interest
rates and subdued growth leads to inflation declines which in turn causes the Bank of England to reduce rates. In the Upside 2 scenario, a
rise in labour force participation and higher productivity contribute to accelerated economic growth, without creating new inflationary
pressures. The Bank of England lowers interest rates stimulating private consumption and investment growth. Demand for labour
increases. and the unemployment rate stabilises and starts falling again. As geopolitical tensions ease, low inflation supports consumer
purchasing power and contributes further to a healthy GDP growth. The strong economic outlook and lower interest rates provide a boost
to house prices growth and support bullish financial markets.
The methodology for estimating scenario probability weights involves simulating a range of future paths for UK GDP using historical data
with five scenarios mapped against the distribution of these future paths. The median is centred around the Baseline with scenarios further
from the Baseline attracting a lower weighting before the five weights are normalised to equate to 100%. The decrease in Downside and
increase in Upside scenario weights is driven by the improvement in GDP actuals and near-term outlook, bringing the Baseline scenario
closer to the Upside and further away from the Downside scenarios. For further details see page 104.
The economic uncertainty adjustments of £78m (2023: £181m) have been applied as overlays to the modelled ECL output. Previously held
uncertainty adjustments reflecting affordability concerns were reduced during the year, informed by lower inflationary risk and a resilient
credit performance in retail lending. For further details see page 101.
The tables below show the key UK macroeconomic variables used in the five scenarios (5 year annual paths), the probability weights
applied to each scenario and the macroeconomic variables by scenario using ‘specific bases’ i.e. the most extreme position of each variable
in the context of the scenario, for example, the highest unemployment for downside scenarios and the lowest unemployment for upside
scenarios. 5-year average tables and movement over time graphs provide additional transparency. Annual paths show quarterly averages
for the year (unemployment and base rate) or change in the year (GDP and HPI).

[PAGE 104]

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk
Baseline average macroeconomic variables used in the calculation of ECL
2024 2025 2026 2027 2028
As at 31 December 2024 % % % % %
UK GDP1 1.0 1.4 1.5 1.6 1.5
UK unemployment2 4.3 4.4 4.5 4.4 4.4
UK HPI3 2.8 3.3 1.6 4.5 3.0
UK bank rate 5.1 4.3 4.0 4.0 3.8
Downside 2
UK GDP1 1.0 (2.3) (1.3) 2.6 2.3
UK unemployment2 4.3 6.2 8.1 6.6 5.5
UK HPI3 2.8 (24.8) (5.2) 10.0 14.6
UK bank rate 5.1 3.5 1.7 0.6 1.1
Downside 1
UK GDP1 1.0 (0.5) 0.1 2.1 1.9
UK unemployment2 4.3 5.3 6.3 5.5 5.0
UK HPI3 2.8 (11.6) (1.8) 7.2 8.7
UK bank rate 5.1 3.9 2.9 2.3 2.4
Upside 2
UK GDP1 1.0 3.0 3.7 2.9 2.4
UK unemployment2 4.3 3.8 3.4 3.5 3.5
UK HPI3 2.8 11.9 8.4 5.1 4.1
UK bank rate 5.1 3.9 2.9 2.8 2.8
Upside 1
UK GDP1 1.0 2.2 2.6 2.2 2.0
UK unemployment2 4.3 4.1 4.0 4.0 4.0
UK HPI3 2.8 7.6 4.9 4.8 3.5
UK bank rate 5.1 4.1 3.5 3.4 3.3
Notes
1 Average Real GDP seasonally adjusted change in year.
2 Average UK unemployment rate 16-year+.
3 Change in year end UK HPI = Halifax All Houses, All Buyers index, relative to prior year end.

[PAGE 105]

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk
Baseline 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027
As at 31 December 2023 % % % % %
UK GDP1 0.5 0.3 1.2 1.6 1.6
UK unemployment2 4.2 4.7 4.7 4.8 5.0
UK HPI3 (3.3) (5.1) 0.7 3.1 5.3
UK bank rate 4.7 4.9 4.1 3.8 3.5
Downside 2
UK GDP1 0.5 (1.5) (2.6) 2.4 1.6
UK unemployment2 4.2 5.2 7.9 6.3 5.5
UK HPI3 (3.3) (19.3) (16.8) 14.5 12.4
UK bank rate 4.7 6.6 1.3 1.0 1.0
Downside 1
UK GDP1 0.5 (0.6) (0.7) 2.0 1.6
UK unemployment2 4.2 4.9 6.3 5.6 5.2
UK HPI3 (3.3) (12.4) (8.3) 8.7 8.8
UK bank rate 4.7 5.8 2.7 2.5 2.3
Upside 2
UK GDP1 0.5 2.4 3.7 2.9 2.4
UK unemployment2 4.2 3.9 3.5 3.6 3.6
UK HPI3 (3.3) 7.8 7.6 4.5 5.6
UK bank rate 4.7 4.3 2.7 2.5 2.5
Upside 1
UK GDP1 0.5 1.4 2.5 2.3 2.0
UK unemployment2 4.2 4.3 4.1 4.2 4.3
UK HPI3 (3.3) 1.2 4.1 3.8 5.4
UK bank rate 4.7 4.6 3.4 3.3 3.0
Notes
1 Average Real GDP seasonally adjusted change in year.
2 Average UK unemployment rate 16-year+.
3 Change in year end UK HPI = Halifax All Houses, All Buyers index, relative to prior year end.
Scenario probability weighting (audited)1
Upside 2 Upside 1 Baseline Downside 1 Downside 2
% % % % %
As at 31 December 2024
Scenario probability weighting 17.4 26.8 32.5 14.7 8.6
As at 31 December 2023
Scenario probability weighting 13.8 24.7 32.4 18.3 10.8
Note
1 For further details on changes to scenario weights see page 102.

[PAGE 106]

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk
Specific bases show the most extreme position of each variable in the context of the downside/upside scenarios, for example, the highest
unemployment for downside scenarios, average unemployment for baseline scenarios and lowest unemployment for upside scenarios.
GDP and HPI downside and upside scenario data represents the lowest and highest cumulative position relative to the start point in the 20
quarter period.
Macroeconomic variables used in the calculation of ECL (specific bases) (audited)1
Upside 2 Upside 1 Baseline Downside 1 Downside 2
% % % % %
As at 31 December 2024
UK GDP2 15.0 11.6 1.4 0.2 (2.9)
UK unemployment3 3.4 3.9 4.4 6.5 8.4
UK HPI4 36.3 25.9 3.0 (11.3) (26.8)
UK bank rate3 2.8 3.3 4.2 5.3 5.3
As at 31 December 2023
UK GDP2 13.4 9.6 1.1 (1.3) (4.1)
UK unemployment3 3.5 3.9 4.7 6.5 8.3
UK HPI4 23.8 11.5 0.1 (22.5) (35.0)
UK bank rate3 2.5 3.0 4.2 6.8 8.5
Average basis represents the average quarterly value of variables in the 20 quarter period with GDP and HPI based on yearly average and
quarterly CAGRs respectively.
Macroeconomic variables used in the calculation of ECL (5-year averages) (audited)1
Upside 2 Upside 1 Baseline Downside 1 Downside 2
% % % % %
As at 31 December 2024
UK GDP5 2.6 2.0 1.4 0.9 0.5
UK unemployment6 3.7 4.0 4.4 5.3 6.1
UK HPI7 6.4 4.7 3.0 0.8 (1.6)
UK bank rate6 3.5 3.9 4.2 3.3 2.4
As at 31 December 2023
UK GDP5 2.4 1.7 1.1 0.6 0.1
UK unemployment6 3.7 4.2 4.7 5.2 5.8
UK HPI7 4.4 2.2 0.1 (1.7) (3.5)
UK bank rate6 3.3 3.8 4.2 3.6 2.9
Notes
1 UK GDP = Real GDP growth seasonally adjusted; UK unemployment = UK unemployment rate 16-year+; UK HPI = Halifax All Houses, All Buyers Index. 20
quarter period starts from Q124 (2023: Q123).
2 Maximum growth relative to Q423 (2023: Q422), based on 20 quarter period in Upside scenarios; 5-year yearly average CAGR in Baseline; minimum growth
relative to Q423 (2023: Q422), based on 20 quarter period in Downside scenarios.
3 Lowest quarter in Upside scenarios; 5-year average in Baseline; highest quarter in Downside scenarios. Period based on 20 quarters from Q124 (2023: Q123).
4 Maximum growth relative to Q423 (2023: Q422), based on 20 quarter period in Upside scenarios; 5-year quarter end CAGR in Baseline; minimum growth
relative to Q423 (2023: Q422), based on 20 quarter period in Downside scenarios.
5 5-year yearly average CAGR, starting 2023 (2023: 2022).
6 5-year average. Period based on 20 quarters from Q124 (2023: Q123).
7 5-year quarter end CAGR, starting Q423 (2023: Q422).

[PAGE 107]

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk
The graphs below plot the historical data for the quarterly, year on year GDP growth rate (Q v Q-4) and the quarterly unemployment rate in
the UK as well as the forecasted data under each of the five scenarios.
UK GDP UK unemployment
(%) (%)
5 10
8
6
0
4
2
-5
0
2023 2025 2027 2029 2031 2033
2023 2025 2027 2029 2031 2033
U2 U1 BL D1 D2
U2 U1 BL D1 D2
GDP growth based on year on year growth each quarter (Q/(Q-4)).

[PAGE 108]

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk
ECL sensitivity analysis (audited)
The table below shows the ECL assuming scenarios have been 100% weighted with the dispersion of results around the Baseline,
highlighting the impact on exposure and ECL across the scenarios.
Model exposure uses exposure at default (EAD) values and is not directly comparable to gross exposure used in prior disclosures.
Barclays Bank UK Group (audited) Scenarios
As at 31 December 2024 Weighted1 Upside 2 Upside 1 Baseline Downside 1 Downside 2
Stage 1 Model exposure (£m)
Retail mortgages 139,077 140,818 140,070 139,179 136,661 134,852
Retail credit cards 18,560 18,493 18,507 18,517 18,551 18,514
Retail other 6,416 6,535 6,487 6,432 6,274 6,093
Corporate loans 20,032 21,312 20,802 20,142 18,800 17,077
Stage 1 Model ECL (£m)
Retail mortgages 1 — 1 1 3 6
Retail credit cards 114 102 106 110 129 148
Retail other 29 26 27 28 31 34
Corporate loans 33 29 31 32 39 45
Stage 1 Coverage (%)
Retail mortgages — — — — — —
Retail credit cards 0.6 0.6 0.6 0.6 0.7 0.8
Retail other 0.5 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.5 0.6
Corporate loans 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.2 0.3
Stage 2 Model exposure (£m)
Retail mortgages 20,398 18,175 19,069 20,131 23,356 26,336
Retail credit cards 2,313 2,231 2,264 2,299 2,392 2,558
Retail other 1,199 1,079 1,128 1,183 1,340 1,522
Corporate loans 3,428 2,149 2,659 3,319 4,661 6,384
Stage 2 Model ECL (£m)
Retail mortgages 4 1 2 3 7 16
Retail credit cards 449 411 423 436 497 587
Retail other 78 65 69 73 97 130
Corporate loans 68 50 57 67 86 118
Stage 2 Coverage (%)
Retail mortgages — — — — — 0.1
Retail credit cards 19.4 18.4 18.7 19.0 20.8 22.9
Retail other 6.5 6.0 6.1 6.2 7.2 8.5
Corporate loans 2.0 2.3 2.1 2.0 1.8 1.8
Stage 3 Model exposure (£m)2
Retail mortgages 1,037 1,037 1,037 1,037 1,037 1,037
Retail credit cards 192 192 192 192 192 192
Retail other 127 127 127 127 127 127
Corporate loans 4,017 4,017 4,017 4,017 4,017 4,017
Stage 3 Model ECL (£m)
Retail mortgages 15 8 10 13 24 36
Retail credit cards 91 89 89 90 93 96
Retail other 68 67 67 68 71 72
Corporate loans3 47 41 43 44 54 65
Stage 3 Coverage (%)
Retail mortgages 1.4 0.8 1.0 1.3 2.3 3.5
Retail credit cards 47.4 46.4 46.4 46.9 48.4 50.0
Retail other 53.5 52.8 52.8 53.5 55.9 56.7
Corporate loans3 1.2 1.0 1.1 1.1 1.3 1.6
Total Model ECL (£m)
Retail mortgages 20 9 13 17 34 58
Retail credit cards 654 602 618 636 719 831
Retail other 175 158 163 169 199 236
Corporate loans3 148 120 131 143 179 228
Total Model ECL 997 889 925 965 1,131 1,353

[PAGE 109]

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk
Reconciliation to total ECL £m
Total weighted model ECL 997
ECL from individually assessed exposures3 133
ECL from non-modelled exposures and others4 251
ECL from debt securities at amortised cost 3
ECL from post model management adjustments 242
Of which: ECL from economic uncertainty adjustments 78
Total ECL 1,626
Notes
1 Model exposures are allocated to a stage based on an individual scenario rather than a probability-weighted approach, as required for Barclays reported
impairment allowances. As a result, it is not possible to back solve the final reported weighted ECL from individual scenarios given balances may be assigned
to a different stage dependent on the scenario.
2 Model exposures allocated to Stage 3 does not change in any of the scenarios as the transition criteria relies only on an observable evidence of default as at
31st December 2024 and not on macroeconomic scenario.
3 Material corporate loan defaults are individually assessed across different recovery strategies. As a result, ECL of £133m is reported as an individually
assessed impairment in the reconciliation table.
4 ECL from non-modelled exposures and others includes ECL on Tesco Bank of £209m calculated using a benchmarked approach based on UK cards and UK
retail loans. The sensitivity of the non-modelled exposures would materially reflect the sensitivity of the benchmarked model.
The use of five scenarios with associated weightings results in a total weighted ECL uplift from the Baseline ECL of 3.3%.
Retail mortgages: Total weighted ECL of £20m represents a 17.6% increase over the Baseline ECL (£17m), with coverage ratios remaining
steady across the Upside scenarios, Baseline and Downside 1 scenario. Under the Downside 2 scenario, total ECL increases to £58m driven
by a fall in UK HPI.
Retail credit cards: Total weighted ECL of £654m represents a 2.8% increase over the Baseline ECL (£636m). Total ECL increases to £831m
under the Downside 2 scenario, driven by an increase in UK unemployment rate.
Retail other: Total weighted ECL of £175m represents a 3.6% increase over the Baseline ECL (£169m). Total ECL increases to £236m under
the Downside 2 scenario, largely driven by an increase in UK unemployment rate.
Corporate loans: Total weighted ECL of £148m represents a 3.5% increase over the Baseline ECL (£143m). Total ECL increases to £228m
under the Downside 2 scenario, driven by a decrease in UK GDP.

[PAGE 110]

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk
Barclays Bank UK Group (audited) Scenarios
As at 31 December 2023 Weighted1 Upside 2 Upside 1 Baseline Downside 1 Downside 2
Stage 1 Model exposure (£m)
Retail mortgages 142,368 144,524 143,776 142,549 139,715 136,140
Retail credit cards 17,425 17,438 17,441 17,438 17,419 17,338
Retail other 6,432 6,593 6,521 6,439 6,320 6,176
Corporate loans 18,114 20,325 19,363 18,221 16,897 15,343
Stage 1 Model ECL (£m)
Retail mortgages 5 — 1 2 7 17
Retail credit cards 116 105 110 115 124 131
Retail other 24 23 24 24 24 23
Corporate loans 34 32 33 33 38 42
Stage 1 Coverage (%)
Retail mortgages — — — — — —
Retail credit cards 0.7 0.6 0.6 0.7 0.7 0.8
Retail other 0.4 0.3 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4
Corporate loans 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.3
Stage 2 Model exposure (£m)
Retail mortgages 20,258 17,445 18,364 19,790 23,449 28,392
Retail credit cards 2,452 2,362 2,399 2,442 2,503 2,630
Retail other 1,334 1,173 1,245 1,326 1,445 1,590
Corporate loans 4,744 2,533 3,495 4,637 5,961 7,515
Stage 2 Model ECL (£m)
Retail mortgages 12 1 2 5 22 82
Retail credit cards 493 441 459 479 533 615
Retail other 79 66 73 78 89 99
Corporate loans 147 119 130 145 165 198
Stage 2 Coverage (%)
Retail mortgages 0.1 — — — 0.1 0.3
Retail credit cards 20.1 18.7 19.1 19.6 21.3 23.4
Retail other 5.9 5.6 5.9 5.9 6.2 6.2
Corporate loans 3.1 4.7 3.7 3.1 2.8 2.6
Stage 3 Model exposure (£m)2
Retail mortgages 1,114 1,114 1,114 1,114 1,114 1,114
Retail credit cards 231 231 231 231 231 231
Retail other 129 129 129 129 129 129
Corporate loans 3,391 3,391 3,391 3,391 3,391 3,391
Stage 3 Model ECL (£m)
Retail mortgages 21 6 9 14 32 66
Retail credit cards 86 85 85 86 88 90
Retail other 69 68 68 69 69 70
Corporate loans3 47 42 44 45 53 60
Stage 3 Coverage (%)
Retail mortgages 1.9 0.5 0.8 1.3 2.9 5.9
Retail credit cards 37.2 36.8 36.8 37.2 38.1 39.0
Retail other 53.5 52.7 52.7 53.5 53.5 54.3
Corporate loans3 1.4 1.2 1.3 1.3 1.6 1.8
Total Model ECL (£m)
Retail mortgages 38 7 12 21 61 165
Retail credit cards 695 631 654 680 745 836
Retail other 172 157 165 171 182 192
Corporate loans3 228 193 207 223 256 300
Total Model ECL 1,133 988 1,038 1,095 1,244 1,493

[PAGE 111]

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk
Reconciliation to total ECL £m
Total model ECL 1,133
ECL from individually assessed exposures3 112
ECL from non-modelled exposures and others 46
ECL from debt securities at amortised cost 3
ECL from post model management adjustments 392
Of which: ECL from economic uncertainty adjustments 181
Total ECL 1,686
Notes
1 Model exposures are allocated to a stage based on an individual scenario rather than a probability-weighted approach, as required for Barclays reported
impairment allowances. As a result, it is not possible to back solve the final reported weighted ECL from individual scenarios given balances may be assigned
to a different stage dependent on the scenario.
2 Model exposures allocated to Stage 3 does not change in any of the scenarios as the transition criteria relies only on an observable evidence of default as at
31st December 2023 and not on macroeconomic scenario.
3 Material corporate loan defaults are individually assessed across different recovery strategies. As a result, ECL of £112m is reported as an individually
assessed impairment in the reconciliation table.

[PAGE 112]

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk
Analysis of the concentration of credit risk
A concentration of credit risk exists when a number of counterparties are located in a common geographical region or are engaged in
similar activities and have similar economic characteristics that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly
affected by changes in economic or other conditions. The Barclays Bank UK Group implements limits on concentrations in order to mitigate
the risk.
The table below presents an industry credit risk concentration analysis of loans and advances at amortised cost net of impairment
allowance including breakdown by geographical location of the counterparty or customers. Further includes debt securities at amortised
cost, off-balance sheet commitments and financial guarantees and contingent liabilities at amortised cost by geography.
Further detail on Barclays Bank UK Group’s policies with regard to managing concentration risk is presented in the Barclays Bank UK PLC
Pillar 3 report (unaudited).
Credit risk concentration by industry and geography (audited)
Loans and advances at amortised cost net of impairment allowance
Geography
Industry
United Kingdom Americas Europe Others Total
Barclays Bank UK Group
As at 31 December 2024 £m £m £m £m £m
Agriculture, Food and Forest Products 3,318 — — — 3,318
Mining and Quarrying 8 — — — 8
Manufacturing 410 — — — 410
Government and central bank 3,153 — — — 3,153
Banks 260 1 21 — 282
Energy and water 42 — — — 42
Materials and Building 7,247 — — 1 7,248
Wholesale and retail distribution and leisure 2,003 — — — 2,003
Transport and storage 243 — — — 243
Home Loans 163,105 — — — 163,105
Business and other services 3,283 — — — 3,283
Other Financial Institutions 260 — — — 260
Cards, unsecured loans and other personal lending 23,353 5 1 2 23,361
Total loans and advances at amortised cost 206,685 6 22 3 206,716
Debt securities at amortised cost 10,118 1,657 434 5,774 17,983
Total loans and advances at amortised cost including
debt securities1 216,803 1,663 456 5,777 224,699
Contingent liabilities 710 0 0 0 710
Loan commitments 66,946 7 5 1 66,959
Total off-balance sheet 67,656 7 5 1 67,669
As at 31 December 2023 £m £m £m £m £m
Agriculture, Food and Forest Products 3,518 — — — 3,518
Mining and Quarrying 6 — — — 6
Manufacturing 507 — — — 507
Government and central bank 4,722 — — — 4,722
Banks 174 61 56 — 291
Energy and water 58 — — — 58
Materials and Building 8,520 3 2 5 8,530
Wholesale and retail distribution and leisure 2,489 — — — 2,489
Transport and storage 345 — — — 345
Home Loans 163,510 — — — 163,510
Business and other services 3,766 4 — — 3,770
Other Financial Institutions 247 — — — 247
Cards, unsecured loans and other personal lending 13,997 2 3 — 14,002
Total loans and advances at amortised cost 201,859 70 61 5 201,995
Debt securities at amortised cost 8,584 1,771 282 7,157 17,794
Total loans and advances at amortised cost including
210,443 1,841 343 7,162 219,789
debt securities
Contingent liabilities 661 — — — 661
Loan commitments 49,800 10 6 4 49,820
Total off-balance sheet 50,461 10 6 4 50,481
Notes
1 Loans and advances for 2024 include POCI assets of £57m
2 Refer to Carbon related assets table on page 76 for more details on the "Exposures towards sectors that highly contribute to carbon related assets" under the
respective Industry sectors.

[PAGE 113]

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk
Loans and advances at amortised cost net of impairment allowance
Geography
Industry
United Kingdom Americas Europe Others Total
Barclays Bank UK PLC
As at 31 December 2024 £m £m £m £m £m
Agriculture, Food and Forest Products 3,318 — — — 3,318
Mining and Quarrying 8 — — — 8
Manufacturing 410 — — — 410
Government and central bank 3,153 — — — 3,153
Banks 295 1 21 — 317
Energy and water 42 — — — 42
Materials and Building 7,247 — — 1 7,248
Wholesale and retail distribution and leisure 2,003 — — — 2,003
Transport and storage 243 — — — 243
Home Loans 163,087 — — — 163,087
Business and other services 3,281 — — — 3,281
Other Financial Institutions 631 — — — 631
Cards, unsecured loans and other personal lending 23,353 5 1 2 23,361
Total loans and advances at amortised cost 207,071 6 22 3 207,102
Debt securities at amortised cost 10,118 1,657 434 5,774 17,983
Total loans and advances at amortised cost including
217,189 1,663 456 5,777 225,085
debt securities
Contingent liabilities 710 — — — 710
Loan commitments 66,561 7 5 1 66,574
Total off-balance sheet 67,271 7 5 1 67,284
As at 31 December 2023 £m £m £m £m £m
Agriculture, Food and Forest Products 3,518 — — — 3,518
Mining and Quarrying 6 — — — 6
Manufacturing 507 — — — 507
Government and central bank 4,722 — — — 4,722
Banks 267 61 56 — 384
Energy and water 58 — — — 58
Materials and Building 8,520 3 2 5 8,530
Wholesale and retail distribution and leisure 2,489 — — — 2,489
Transport and storage 345 — — — 345
Home Loans 163,473 — — — 163,473
Business and other services 3,743 4 — — 3,747
Other Financial Institutions 766 — — — 766
Cards, unsecured loans and other personal lending 13,997 2 3 — 14,002
Total loans and advances at amortised cost 202,411 70 61 5 202,547
Debt securities at amortised cost 8,584 1,772 282 7,156 17,794
Total loans and advances at amortised cost including
210,995 1,842 343 7,161 220,341
debt securities
Contingent liabilities 661 — — — 661
Loan commitments 49,626 10 6 4 49,646
Total off-balance sheet 50,287 10 6 4 50,307

[PAGE 114]

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk
The Barclays Bank UK Group’s approach to management and representation of credit quality
Asset credit quality
The credit quality distribution is based on the IFRS 9 12 month probability of default (PD) at the reporting date to ensure comparability with
other ECL disclosures in the Expected Credit Losses section on pages 83 to 112.
The Barclays Bank UK Group uses the following internal measures to determine credit quality for loans:
Default Probability
PD Range % Internal DG Credit Quality Standard and
Band >Min Mid <=Max description Moody’s Poor’s
1 0.00% 0.01% 0.02% Aaa, Aa1, Aa2 AAA, AA+,
AA, AA-
2 0.02% 0.03% 0.03% Aa3 AA-
0.00 to < 0.15 Strong
3 0.03% 0.04% 0.05% A1, A2, A3 A+, A
4 0.05% 0.08% 0.10% A1, A2, A3 A-
5 0.10% 0.13% 0.15% Baa1 BBB+
6 0.15% 0.18% 0.20% Baa2 BBB
0.15 to < 0.25 Strong
7 0.20% 0.23% 0.25% Baa2 BBB-
8 0.25% 0.28% 0.30% Baa3 BBB-
0.25 to < 0.50 9 0.30% 0.35% 0.40% Strong Baa3 BB+
10 0.40% 0.45% 0.50% Ba1 BB+
11 0.50% 0.55% 0.60% Strong Ba1 BB
0.50 to < 0.75
12 0.60% 0.68% 0.75% Satisfactory Ba2 BB, BB-
12 0.75% 0.98% 1.20% Ba2 BB, BB-
13 1.20% 1.38% 1.55% Ba3 BB-
0.75 to < 2.50 Satisfactory
14 1.55% 1.85% 2.15% Ba3 B+
15 2.15% 2.33% 2.50% B1 B+
15 2.50% 2.78% 3.05% B1 B+
16 3.05% 3.75% 4.45% B2 B
2.50 to < 10.00 17 4.45% 5.40% 6.35% Satisfactory B3, Caa1 B
18 6.35% 7.50% 8.65% B3, Caa1 B-
19 8.65% 9.32% 10.00% Caa2 B-
19 10.00% 10.67% 11.35% Satisfactory Caa2 B-
20 11.35% 15.00% 18.65% Higher Risk Caa2 CCC+
10.00 to < 100.00
21 18.65% 30.00% 99.99% Caa3, Ca, C CCC, CCC-,
Higher Risk
CC+, CC, C
100.00 (Default) 22 100% 100% 100% Credit D D
Impaired
For retail clients, a range of analytical tools are used to derive the probability of default of clients at inception and on an ongoing basis.
For loans that are not past due, these descriptions can be summarised as follows:
Strong: there is a very high likelihood of the asset being recovered in full.
Satisfactory: while there is a high likelihood that the asset will be recovered and therefore of no cause for concern to the Barclays Bank UK
Group, the asset may not be collateralised, or may relate to unsecured retail facilities. At the lower end of this grade there are customers
that are being more carefully monitored, for example, corporate customers which are indicating some evidence of deterioration, mortgages
with a high loan to value, and unsecured retail loans operating outside normal product guidelines.
Higher Risk: there is concern over the obligor’s ability to make payments when due. However, these have not yet converted to actual
delinquency. There may also be doubts over the value of collateral or security provided. However, the borrower or counterparty is
continuing to make payments when due and is expected to settle all outstanding amounts of principal and interest.
Loans that are past due are monitored closely, with impairment allowances raised as appropriate and in line with the Barclays Bank UK
Group’s impairment policies. These loans are all considered higher risk for the purpose of this analysis of credit quality.
Debt securities
For assets held at fair value, the carrying value on the balance sheet will include, among other things, the credit risk of the issuer. Most
listed and some unlisted securities are rated by external rating agencies. The Barclays Bank UK Group mainly uses external credit ratings
provided by Standard & Poor’s, Fitch or Moody’s. Where such ratings are not available or are not current, the Barclays Bank UK Group will
use its own internal ratings for the securities.

[PAGE 115]

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk
Balance sheet credit quality
The following tables present the credit quality of Barclays Bank UK Group assets exposed to credit risk.
Overview
As at 31 December 2024 the ratio of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s on-balance sheet assets classified as strong (0.0 < 0.60%) at 87%
(2023: 89%) of total assets exposed to credit risk.
Balance sheet credit quality (audited)
PD 0.0 to 0.60 to 11.35 to 0.0 to 0.60 to 11.35 to
Barclays Bank UK Group Range <0.60% <11.35% 100% Total <0.60% <11.35% 100% Total
As at 31 December 2024 £m £m £m £m % % % %
Cash and balances at central
banks 29,819 — — 29,819 100 — — 100
Cash collateral and settlement
balances 6,002 — — 6,002 100 — — 100
Loans and advances at amortised
cost
Retail mortgages 155,917 5,178 2,010 163,105 96 3 1 100
Retail credit cards 3,670 10,715 645 15,030 24 72 4 100
Retail other 1,725 6,416 190 8,331 21 77 2 100
Corporate loans 9,073 9,405 1,772 20,250 45 46 9 100
Total loans and advances at
amortised cost 170,385 31,714 4,617 206,716 83 15 2 100
Debt securities at amortised cost 17,757 226 — 17,983 99 1 — 100
Reverse repurchase agreements
and other similar secured lending 5,894 — — 5,894 100 — — 100
Trading portfolio assets:
Debt securities 242 — — 242 100 — — 100
Total trading portfolio assets 242 — — 242 100 — — 100
Financial assets at fair value
through the income statement:
Loans and advances 1,455 88 — 1,543 94 6 — 100
Other financial assets — — — — — — — —
Total financial assets at fair value
through the income statement 1,455 88 — 1,543 94 6 — 100
Derivative financial instruments 1,901 — — 1,901 100 — — 100
Financial assets at fair value
through other comprehensive
income - Debt securities 27,045 — — 27,045 100 — — 100
Other assets 265 — — 265 100 — — 100
Total on-balance sheet 260,765 32,028 4,617 297,410 87 11 2 100

[PAGE 116]

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk
Balance sheet credit quality (audited)
PD 0.0 to 0.60 to 11.35 to 0.0 to 0.60 to 11.35 to
Barclays Bank UK Group Range <0.60% <11.35% 100% Total <0.60% <11.35% 100% Total
As at 31 December 2023 £m £m £m £m % % % %
Cash and balances at central
— —
banks 34,948 34,948 100 — — 100
Cash collateral and settlement
balances 5,507 — — 5,507 100 — — 100
Loans and advances at amortised
cost
Retail mortgages 155,200 6,200 2,110 163,510 95 4 1 100
Retail credit cards 3,123 5,967 620 9,710 32 62 6 100
Retail other 1,756 2,376 160 4,292 41 55 4 100
Corporate loans 11,188 11,485 1,810 24,483 46 47 7 100
Total loans and advances at
amortised cost 171,267 26,028 4,700 201,995 85 13 2 100
Debt securities at amortised cost 17,596 198 — 17,794 99 1 — 100
Reverse repurchase agreements
and other similar secured lending 3,567 — — 3,567 100 — — 100
Trading portfolio assets:
Debt securities 43 — — 43 100 — — 100
Total trading portfolio assets 43 — — 43 100 — — 100
Financial assets at fair value
through the income statement:
Loans and advances 1,689 23 3 1,715 99 1 — 100
Other financial assets — — — — — — — —
Total financial assets at fair value
1,689 23 3 1,715 99 1 — 100
through the income statement
Derivative financial instruments 1,566 — — 1,566 100 — — 100
Financial assets at fair value
through other comprehensive 20,409 — — 20,409 100 — — 100
income - Debt securities
Other assets 186 — — 186 100 — — 100
Total on-balance sheet 256,778 26,249 4,703 287,730 89 9 2 100

[PAGE 117]

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk
Balance sheet credit quality (audited)
PD 0.0 to 0.60 to 11.35 to 0.0 to 0.60 to 11.35 to
Barclays Bank UK PLC Range <0.60% <11.35% 100% Total <0.60% <11.35% 100% Total
As at 31 December 2024 £m £m £m £m % % % %
Cash and balances at central
banks 29,819 — — 29,819 100 — — 100
Cash collateral and settlement
balances 6,002 — — 6,002 100 — — 100
Loans and advances at amortised
cost
Retail mortgages 155,899 5,178 2,010 163,087 96 3 1 100
Retail credit cards 3,670 10,715 645 15,030 24 72 4 100
Retail other 1,725 6,416 190 8,331 21 77 2 100
Corporate loans 9,478 9,404 1,772 20,654 46 45 9 100
Total loans and advances at
amortised cost 170,772 31,713 4,617 207,102 83 15 2 100
Debt securities at amortised cost 17,757 226 — 17,983 99 1 — 100
Reverse repurchase agreements
and other similar secured lending 5,894 — — 5,894 100 — — 100
Trading portfolio assets:
Debt securities 242 — — 242 100 — — 100
Total trading portfolio assets 242 — — 242 100 — — 100
Financial assets at fair value
through the income statement:
Loans and advances 1,455 88 — 1,543 94 6 — 100
Other financial assets — — — — — — — —
Total financial assets at fair value
through the income statement 1,455 88 — 1,543 94 6 — 100
Derivative financial instruments 1,901 — — 1,901 100 — — 100
Financial assets at fair value
through other comprehensive
income - Debt securities 27,045 — — 27,045 100 — — 100
Other assets 284 — — 284 100 — — 100
Total on-balance sheet 261,171 32,027 4,617 297,815 87 11 2 100

[PAGE 118]

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk
Balance sheet credit quality (audited)
PD 0.0 to 0.60 to 11.35 to 0.0 to 0.60 to 11.35 to
Barclays Bank UK PLC Range <0.60% <11.35% 100% Total <0.60% <11.35% 100% Total
As at 31 December 2023 £m £m £m £m % % % %
Cash and balances at central
banks 34,948 — — 34,948 100 — — 100
Cash collateral and settlement
balances 5,507 — — 5,507 100 — — 100
Loans and advances at amortised
cost
Retail mortgages 155,163 6,200 2,110 163,473 95 4 1 100
Retail credit cards 3,123 5,967 620 9,710 32 62 6 100
Retail other 1,756 2,376 160 4,292 41 55 4 100
Corporate loans 11,778 11,485 1,809 25,072 47 46 7 100
Total loans and advances at
amortised cost 171,820 26,028 4,699 202,547 85 13 2 100
Debt securities at amortised cost 17,596 198 — 17,794 99 1 — 100
Reverse repurchase agreements
and other similar secured lending 3,567 — — 3,567 100 — — 100
Trading portfolio assets:
Debt securities 43 — — 43 100 — — 100
Total trading portfolio assets 43 — — 43 100 — — 100
Financial assets at fair value
through the income statement:
Loans and advances 1,689 23 3 1,715 99 1 — 100
Other financial assets — — — — — — — —
Total financial assets at fair value
through the income statement 1,689 23 3 1,715 99 1 — 100
Derivative financial instruments 1,566 — — 1,566 100 — — 100
Financial assets at fair value
through other comprehensive
income - Debt securities 20,409 — — 20,409 100 — — 100
Other assets 193 — — 193 100 — — 100
Total on-balance sheet 257,338 26,249 4,702 288,289 89 9 2 100

[PAGE 119]

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk
Credit exposures by internal PD grade
The below tables represent credit risk profiles by PD grade for loans and advances at amortised cost, contingent liabilities and loan
commitments.
Stage 1 higher risk assets, presented gross of associated collateral held, are of weaker credit quality but have not significantly deteriorated
since origination.
IFRS 9 Stage 1 and Stage 2 classification is not dependent solely on the absolute probability of default but on elements that determine a
Significant Increase in Credit Risk, including relative movement in probability of default since initial recognition. There is therefore no direct
relationship between credit quality and IFRS 9 stage classification.
Credit risk profile by internal PD grade for retail mortgages (audited)
As at 31 December 2024 Gross carrying amount Allowance for ECL
Stage 3 Stage 3
excluding Stage 3 excluding Stage 3 Net Coverage
Grading PD range Stage 1 Stage 2 POCI POCI Total Stage 1 Stage 2 POCI POCI Total exposure ratio
Credit quality
% description £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m %
Barclays Bank UK Group
0.0 to
1-3 <0.05% Strong 26,799 649 — — 27,448 1 — — — 1 27,447 —
0.05 to
4-5 <0.15% Strong 90,418 6,864 — — 97,282 15 3 — — 18 97,264 —
0.15 to
6-8 <0.30% Strong 18,572 4,417 — — 22,989 10 6 — — 16 22,973 0.1
0.30 to
9-11 <0.60% Strong 5,301 2,945 — — 8,246 3 10 — — 13 8,233 0.2
0.60 to
12-14 <2.15% Satisfactory 859 2,741 — — 3,600 1 19 — — 20 3,580 0.6
2.15 to
15-19 <11.35% Satisfactory 82 1,532 — — 1,614 — 16 — — 16 1,598 1.0
11.35 to
20-21 <100% Higher Risk 122 298 — — 420 — 7 — — 7 413 1.7
Credit
22 100% Impaired — — 1,652 — 1,652 — — 55 — 55 1,597 3.3
Total 142,153 19,446 1,652 — 163,251 30 61 55 — 146 163,105 0.1
Credit risk profile by internal PD grade for retail credit cards (audited)
As at 31 December 2024 Gross carrying amount Allowance for ECL
Stage 3 Stage 3
excluding Stage 3 excluding Stage 3 Net Coverage
Grading PD range Stage 1 Stage 2 POCI POCI Total Stage 1 Stage 2 POCI POCI Total exposure ratio
Credit quality
% description £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m %
Barclays Bank UK Group
0.0 to
1-3 <0.05% Strong 118 — — — 118 — — — — — 118 —
0.05 to
4-5 <0.15% Strong 1,141 3 — — 1,144 1 — — — 1 1,143 0.1
0.15 to
6-8 <0.30% Strong 1,031 3 — — 1,034 2 — — — 2 1,032 0.2
0.30 to
9-11 <0.60% Strong 1,375 6 — — 1,381 4 — — — 4 1,377 0.3
0.60 to
12-14 <2.15% Satisfactory 7,392 54 — — 7,446 142 3 — — 145 7,301 1.9
2.15 to
15-19 <11.35% Satisfactory 2,311 1,330 — — 3,641 48 179 — — 227 3,414 6.2
11.35 to
20-21 <100% Higher Risk 129 668 — — 797 22 258 — — 280 517 35.1
Credit
22 100% Impaired — — 179 40 219 — — 91 — 91 128 41.6
Total 13,497 2,064 179 40 15,780 219 440 91 — 750 15,030 4.8

[PAGE 120]

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk
Credit risk profile by internal PD grade for retail other (audited)
As at 31 December 2024 Gross carrying amount Allowance for ECL
Stage 3 Stage 3
excluding Stage 3 excluding Stage 3 Net Coverage
Grading PD range Stage 1 Stage 2 POCI POCI Total Stage 1 Stage 2 POCI POCI Total exposure ratio
Credit quality
% description £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m %
Barclays Bank UK Group
0.0 to
1-3 <0.05% Strong 35 1 — — 36 1 — — — 1 35 2.8
0.05 to
4-5 <0.15% Strong 300 5 — — 305 1 — — — 1 304 0.3
0.15 to
6-8 <0.30% Strong 378 6 — — 384 1 — — — 1 383 0.3
0.30 to
9-11 <0.60% Strong 952 59 — — 1,011 5 3 — — 8 1,003 0.8
0.60 to
12-14 <2.15% Satisfactory 5,298 209 — — 5,507 74 11 — — 85 5,422 1.5
2.15 to
15-19 <11.35% Satisfactory 615 435 — — 1,050 20 36 — — 56 994 5.3
11.35 to
20-21 <100% Higher Risk 67 156 — — 223 17 51 — — 68 155 30.5
Credit
22 100% Impaired — — 130 17 147 — — 112 — 112 35 76.2
Total 7,645 871 130 17 8,663 119 101 112 — 332 8,331 3.8
Credit risk profile by internal PD grade for corporate loans (audited)
As at 31 December 2024 Gross carrying amount Allowance for ECL
Stage 3 Stage 3
excluding Stage 3 excluding Stage 3 Net Coverage
Grading PD range Stage 1 Stage 2 POCI POCI Total Stage 1 Stage 2 POCI POCI Total exposure ratio
Credit quality
% description £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m %
Barclays Bank UK Group
0.0 to
1-3 <0.05% Strong 4,908 107 — — 5,015 2 — — — 2 5,013 —
0.05 to
4-5 <0.15% Strong 2,135 — — — 2,135 2 — — — 2 2,133 0.1
0.15 to
6-8 <0.30% Strong 542 10 — — 552 1 — — — 1 551 0.2
0.30 to
9-11 <0.60% Strong 1,330 52 — — 1,382 5 1 — — 6 1,376 0.4
0.60 to
12-14 <2.15% Satisfactory 4,655 778 — — 5,433 32 23 — — 55 5,378 1.0
2.15 to
15-19 <11.35% Satisfactory 2,477 1,611 — — 4,088 21 40 — — 61 4,027 1.5
11.35 to
20-21 <100% Higher Risk 99 461 — — 560 2 13 — — 15 545 2.7
Credit
22 100% Impaired — — 1,464 — 1,464 — — 237 — 237 1,227 16.2
Total 16,146 3,019 1,464 — 20,629 65 77 237 — 379 20,250 1.8

[PAGE 121]

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk
Credit risk profile by internal PD grade for loans and advances at amortised cost (audited)
As at 31 December 2024 Gross carrying amount Allowance for ECL
Stage 3 Stage 3
excluding Stage 3 excluding Stage 3 Net Coverage
Grading PD range Stage 1 Stage 2 POCI POCI Total Stage 1 Stage 2 POCI POCI Total exposure ratio
Credit quality
% description £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m %
Barclays Bank UK Group
0.0 to
1-3 <0.05% Strong 31,860 757 — — 32,617 4 — — — 4 32,613 —
0.05 to
4-5 <0.15% Strong 93,994 6,872 — — 100,866 19 3 — — 22 100,844 —
0.15 to
6-8 <0.30% Strong 20,523 4,436 — — 24,959 14 6 — — 20 24,939 0.1
0.30 to
9-11 <0.60% Strong 8,958 3,062 — — 12,020 17 14 — — 31 11,989 0.3
0.60 to
12-14 <2.15% Satisfactory 18,204 3,782 — — 21,986 249 56 — — 305 21,681 1.4
2.15 to
15-19 <11.35% Satisfactory 5,485 4,908 — — 10,393 89 271 — — 360 10,033 3.5
11.35 to
20-21 <100% Higher Risk 417 1,583 — — 2,000 41 329 — — 370 1,630 18.5
Credit
22 100% Impaired — — 3,425 57 3,482 — — 495 — 495 2,987 14.2
Total 179,441 25,400 3,425 57 208,323 433 679 495 — 1,607 206,716 0.8
Credit risk profile by internal PD grade for retail mortgages (audited)
As at 31 December 2023 Gross carrying amount Allowance for ECL
Stage 3 Stage 3
excluding Stage 3 excluding Stage 3 Net Coverage
Grading PD range Stage 1 Stage 2 POCI POCI Total Stage 1 Stage 2 POCI POCI Total exposure ratio
Credit quality
% description £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m %
Barclays Bank UK Group
0.0 to
1-3 <0.05% Strong 25,758 587 — — 26,345 1 — — — 1 26,344 —
0.05 to
4-5 <0.15% Strong 58,652 3,384 — — 62,036 11 2 — — 13 62,023 —
0.15 to
6-8 <0.30% Strong 51,237 7,235 — — 58,472 19 8 — — 27 58,445 —
0.30 to
9-11 <0.60% Strong 5,958 2,447 — — 8,405 5 12 — — 17 8,388 0.2
0.60 to
12-14 <2.15% Satisfactory 1,029 3,037 — — 4,066 2 23 — — 25 4,041 0.6
2.15 to
15-19 <11.35% Satisfactory 191 1,993 — — 2,184 1 24 — — 25 2,159 1.1
11.35 to
20-21 <100% Higher Risk 118 398 — — 516 — 8 — — 8 508 1.6
Credit
22 100% Impaired — — 1,709 — 1,709 — — 107 — 107 1,602 6.3
Total 142,943 19,081 1,709 — 163,733 39 77 107 — 223 163,510 0.1

[PAGE 122]

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk
Credit risk profile by internal PD grade for retail credit cards (audited)
As at 31 December 2023 Gross carrying amount Allowance for ECL
Stage 3 Stage 3
excluding Stage 3 excluding Stage 3 Net Coverage
Grading PD range Stage 1 Stage 2 POCI POCI Total Stage 1 Stage 2 POCI POCI Total exposure ratio
Credit quality
% description £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m %
Barclays Bank UK Group
0.0 to
1-3 <0.05% Strong 123 — — — 123 — — — — — 123 —
0.05 to
4-5 <0.15% Strong 975 4 — — 979 1 — — — 1 978 0.1
0.15 to
6-8 <0.30% Strong 980 4 — — 984 2 — — — 2 982 0.2
0.30 to
9-11 <0.60% Strong 1,038 6 — — 1,044 4 — — — 4 1,040 0.4
0.60 to
12-14 <2.15% Satisfactory 2,650 48 — — 2,698 27 3 — — 30 2,668 1.1
2.15 to
15-19 <11.35% Satisfactory 2,168 1,386 — — 3,554 62 193 — — 255 3,299 7.2
11.35 to
20-21 <100% Higher Risk 160 680 — — 840 15 296 — — 311 529 37.0
Credit
22 100% Impaired — — 198 — 198 — — 107 — 107 91 54.0
Total 8,094 2,128 198 — 10,420 111 492 107 — 710 9,710 6.8
Credit risk profile by internal PD grade for retail other (audited)
As at 31 December 2023 Gross carrying amount Allowance for ECL
Stage 3 Stage 3
excluding Stage 3 excluding Stage 3 Net Coverage
Grading PD range Stage 1 Stage 2 POCI POCI Total Stage 1 Stage 2 POCI POCI Total exposure ratio
Credit quality
% description £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m %
Barclays Bank UK Group
0.0 to
1-3 <0.05% Strong 29 — — — 29 1 — — — 1 28 3.4
0.05 to
4-5 <0.15% Strong 218 3 — — 221 1 — — — 1 220 0.5
0.15 to
6-8 <0.30% Strong 365 6 — — 371 1 — — — 1 370 0.3
0.30 to
9-11 <0.60% Strong 1,099 50 — — 1,149 8 3 — — 11 1,138 1.0
0.60 to
12-14 <2.15% Satisfactory 1,234 235 — — 1,469 11 15 — — 26 1,443 1.8
2.15 to
15-19 <11.35% Satisfactory 513 473 — — 986 14 39 — — 53 933 5.4
11.35 to
20-21 <100% Higher Risk 18 160 — — 178 2 51 — — 53 125 29.8
Credit
22 100% Impaired — — 148 — 148 — — 113 — 113 35 76.4
Total 3,476 927 148 — 4,551 38 108 113 — 259 4,292 5.7

[PAGE 123]

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk
Credit risk profile by internal PD grade for corporate loans (audited)
As at 31 December 2023 Gross carrying amount Allowance for ECL
Stage 3 Stage 3
excluding Stage 3 excluding Stage 3 Net Coverage
Grading PD range Stage 1 Stage 2 POCI POCI Total Stage 1 Stage 2 POCI POCI Total exposure ratio
Credit quality
% description £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m %
Barclays Bank UK Group
0.0 to
1-3 <0.05% Strong 7,460 3 — — 7,463 6 — — — 6 7,457 0.1
0.05 to
4-5 <0.15% Strong 1,845 — — — 1,845 2 — — — 2 1,843 0.1
0.15 to
6-8 <0.30% Strong 387 27 — — 414 1 1 — — 2 412 0.5
0.30 to
9-11 <0.60% Strong 1,422 64 — — 1,486 9 1 — — 10 1,476 0.7
0.60 to
12-14 <2.15% Satisfactory 5,303 1,282 — — 6,585 53 37 — — 90 6,495 1.4
2.15 to
15-19 <11.35% Satisfactory 2,748 2,326 — — 5,074 34 50 — — 84 4,990 1.7
11.35 to
20-21 <100% Higher Risk 127 633 — — 760 2 16 — — 18 742 2.4
Credit
22 100% Impaired — — 1,320 — 1,320 — — 252 — 252 1,068 19.1
Total 19,292 4,335 1,320 — 24,947 107 105 252 — 464 24,483 1.9
Credit risk profile by internal PD grade for loans and advances at amortised cost (audited)
As at 31 December 2023 Gross carrying amount Allowance for ECL
Stage 3 Stage 3
excluding Stage 3 excluding Stage 3 Net Coverage
Grading PD range Stage 1 Stage 2 POCI POCI Total Stage 1 Stage 2 POCI POCI Total exposure ratio
Credit quality
% description £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m %
Barclays Bank UK Group
0.0 to
1-3 <0.05% Strong 33,370 590 — — 33,960 8 — — — 8 33,952 —
0.05 to
4-5 <0.15% Strong 61,690 3,391 — — 65,081 15 2 — — 17 65,064 —
0.15 to
6-8 <0.30% Strong 52,969 7,272 — — 60,241 23 9 — — 32 60,209 0.1
0.30 to
9-11 <0.60% Strong 9,517 2,567 — — 12,084 26 16 — — 42 12,042 0.3
0.60 to
12-14 <2.15% Satisfactory 10,216 4,602 — — 14,818 93 78 — — 171 14,647 1.2
2.15 to
15-19 <11.35% Satisfactory 5,620 6,178 — — 11,798 111 306 — — 417 11,381 3.5
11.35 to
20-21 <100% Higher Risk 423 1,871 — — 2,294 19 371 — — 390 1,904 17.0
Credit
22 100% Impaired — — 3,375 — 3,375 — — 579 — 579 2,796 17.2
Total 173,805 26,471 3,375 — 203,651 295 782 579 — 1,656 201,995 0.8

[PAGE 124]

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk
Credit risk profile by internal PD grade for contingent liabilities (audited)
As at 31 December 2024 Gross carrying amount Allowance for ECL
Stage 3 Stage 3
excluding Stage 3 excluding Stage 3 Net Coverage
Grading PD range Stage 1 Stage 2 POCI POCI Total Stage 1 Stage 2 POCI POCI Total exposure ratio
Credit quality
% description £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m %
Barclays Bank UK Group
0.0 to
1-3 <0.05% Strong 710 — — — 710 — — — — — 710 —
0.05 to
4-5 <0.15% Strong — — — — — — — — — — — —
0.15 to
6-8 <0.30% Strong — — — — — — — — — — — —
0.30 to
9-11 <0.60% Strong — — — — — — — — — — — —
0.60 to
12-14 <2.15% Satisfactory — — — — — — — — — — — —
2.15 to
15-19 <11.35% Satisfactory — — — — — — — — — — — —
11.35 to
20-21 <100% Higher Risk — — — — — — — — — — — —
Credit
22 100% Impaired — — — — — — — — — — — —
Total 710 — — — 710 — — — — — 710 —
Credit risk profile by internal PD grade for contingent liabilities (audited)
As at 31 December 2023 Gross carrying amount Allowance for ECL
Stage 3 Stage 3
excluding Stage 3 excluding Stage 3 Net Coverage
Grading PD range Stage 1 Stage 2 POCI POCI Total Stage 1 Stage 2 POCI POCI Total exposure ratio
Credit quality
% description £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m %
Barclays Bank UK Group
0.0 to
1-3 <0.05% Strong 661 — — — 661 — — — — — 661 —
0.05 to
4-5 <0.15% Strong — — — — — — — — — — — —
0.15 to
6-8 <0.30% Strong — — — — — — — — — — — —
0.30 to
9-11 <0.60% Strong — — — — — — — — — — — —
0.60 to
12-14 <2.15% Satisfactory — — — — — — — — — — — —
2.15 to
15-19 <11.35% Satisfactory — — — — — — — — — — — —
11.35 to
20-21 <100% Higher Risk — — — — — — — — — — — —
Credit
22 100% Impaired — — — — — — — — — — — —
Total 661 — — — 661 — — — — — 661 —

[PAGE 125]

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk
Credit risk profile by internal PD grade for loan commitments (audited)
As at 31 December 2024 Gross carrying amount Allowance for ECL
Stage 3 Stage 3
excluding Stage 3 excluding Stage 3 Net Coverage
Grading PD range Stage 1 Stage 2 POCI POCI Total Stage 1 Stage 2 POCI POCI Total exposure ratio
Credit quality
% description £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m %
Barclays Bank UK Group
0.0 to
1-3 <0.05% Strong 5,045 24 — — 5,069 — — — — — 5,069 —
0.05 to
4-5 <0.15% Strong 14,081 248 — — 14,329 1 — — — 1 14,328 —
0.15 to
6-8 <0.30% Strong 6,102 120 — — 6,222 1 — — — 1 6,221 —
0.30 to
9-11 <0.60% Strong 15,262 164 — — 15,426 1 — — — 1 15,425 —
0.60 to
12-14 <2.15% Satisfactory 22,621 457 — — 23,078 3 1 — — 4 23,074 —
2.15 to
15-19 <11.35% Satisfactory 1,727 739 — — 2,466 2 4 — — 6 2,460 0.2
11.35 to
20-21 <100% Higher Risk 60 115 — — 175 — 3 — — 3 172 1.7
Credit
22 100% Impaired — — 188 6 194 — — — — — 194 —
Total 64,898 1,867 188 6 66,959 8 8 — — 16 66,943 —
Credit risk profile by internal PD grade for loan commitments (audited)
As at 31 December 2023 Gross carrying amount Allowance for ECL
Stage 3 Stage 3
excluding Stage 3 excluding Stage 3 Net Coverage
Grading PD range Stage 1 Stage 2 POCI POCI Total Stage 1 Stage 2 POCI POCI Total exposure ratio
Credit quality
% description £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m %
Barclays Bank UK Group
0.0 to
1-3 <0.05% Strong 5,102 23 — — 5,125 — — — — — 5,125 —
0.05 to
4-5 <0.15% Strong 12,334 202 — — 12,536 1 — — — 1 12,535 —
0.15 to
6-8 <0.30% Strong 7,531 260 — — 7,791 1 — — — 1 7,790 —
0.30 to
9-11 <0.60% Strong 10,867 192 — — 11,059 2 — — — 2 11,057 —
0.60 to
12-14 <2.15% Satisfactory 9,478 526 — — 10,004 2 1 — — 3 10,001 —
2.15 to
15-19 <11.35% Satisfactory 1,907 914 — — 2,821 1 5 — — 6 2,815 0.2
11.35 to
20-21 <100% Higher Risk 173 121 — — 294 4 10 — — 14 280 4.8
Credit
22 100% Impaired — — 190 — 190 — — — — — 190 —
Total 47,392 2,238 190 — 49,820 11 16 — — 27 49,793 0.1

[PAGE 126]

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk
Credit risk profile by internal PD grade for retail mortgages (audited)
As at 31 December 2024 Gross carrying amount Allowance for ECL
Stage 3 Stage 3
excluding Stage 3 excluding Stage 3 Net Coverage
Grading PD range Stage 1 Stage 2 POCI POCI Total Stage 1 Stage 2 POCI POCI Total exposure ratio
Credit quality
% description £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m %
Barclays Bank UK PLC
0.0 to
1-3 <0.05% Strong 26,799 649 — — 27,448 1 — — — 1 27,447 —
0.05 to
4-5 <0.15% Strong 90,418 6,864 — — 97,282 17 3 — — 20 97,262 —
0.15 to
6-8 <0.30% Strong 18,572 4,417 — — 22,989 8 6 — — 14 22,975 0.1
0.30 to
9-11 <0.60% Strong 5,283 2,945 — — 8,228 3 10 — — 13 8,215 0.2
0.60 to
12-14 <2.15% Satisfactory 859 2,741 — — 3,600 1 19 — — 20 3,580 0.6
2.15 to
15-19 <11.35% Satisfactory 82 1,532 — — 1,614 — 16 — — 16 1,598 1.0
11.35 to
20-21 <100% Higher Risk 122 298 — — 420 — 7 — — 7 413 1.7
Credit
22 100% Impaired — — 1,652 — 1,652 — — 55 — 55 1,597 3.3
Total 142,135 19,446 1,652 — 163,233 30 61 55 — 146 163,087 0.1
Credit risk profile by internal PD grade for retail credit cards (audited)
As at 31 December 2024 Gross carrying amount Allowance for ECL
Stage 3 Stage 3
excluding Stage 3 excluding Stage 3 Net Coverage
Grading PD range Stage 1 Stage 2 POCI POCI Total Stage 1 Stage 2 POCI POCI Total exposure ratio
Credit quality
% description £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m %
Barclays Bank UK PLC
0.0 to
1-3 <0.05% Strong 118 — — — 118 — — — — — 118 —
0.05 to
4-5 <0.15% Strong 1,141 3 — — 1,144 1 — — — 1 1,143 0.1
0.15 to
6-8 <0.30% Strong 1,031 3 — — 1,034 2 — — — 2 1,032 0.2
0.30 to
9-11 <0.60% Strong 1,375 6 — — 1,381 4 — — — 4 1,377 0.3
0.60 to
12-14 <2.15% Satisfactory 7,392 54 — — 7,446 142 3 — — 145 7,301 1.9
2.15 to
15-19 <11.35% Satisfactory 2,311 1,330 — — 3,641 48 179 — — 227 3,414 6.2
11.35 to
20-21 <100% Higher Risk 129 668 — — 797 22 258 — — 280 517 35.1
Credit
22 100% Impaired — — 179 40 219 — — 91 — 91 128 41.6
Total 13,497 2,064 179 40 15,780 219 440 91 — 750 15,030 4.8

[PAGE 127]

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk
Credit risk profile by internal PD grade for retail other (audited)
As at 31 December 2024 Gross carrying amount Allowance for ECL
Stage 3 Stage 3
excluding Stage 3 excluding Stage 3 Net Coverage
Grading PD range Stage 1 Stage 2 POCI POCI Total Stage 1 Stage 2 POCI POCI Total exposure ratio
Credit quality
% description £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m %
Barclays Bank UK PLC
0.0 to
1-3 <0.05% Strong 35 1 — — 36 1 — — — 1 35 2.8
0.05 to
4-5 <0.15% Strong 300 5 — — 305 1 — — — 1 304 0.3
0.15 to
6-8 <0.30% Strong 378 6 — — 384 1 — — — 1 383 0.3
0.30 to
9-11 <0.60% Strong 952 59 — — 1,011 5 3 — — 8 1,003 0.8
0.60 to
12-14 <2.15% Satisfactory 5,298 210 — — 5,508 75 11 — — 86 5,422 1.6
2.15 to
15-19 <11.35% Satisfactory 615 434 — — 1,049 19 36 — — 55 994 5.2
11.35 to
20-21 <100% Higher Risk 67 156 — — 223 17 51 — — 68 155 30.5
Credit
22 100% Impaired — — 130 17 147 — — 112 — 112 35 76.2
Total 7,645 871 130 17 8,663 119 101 112 — 332 8,331 3.8
Credit risk profile by internal PD grade for corporate loans (audited)
As at 31 December 2024 Gross carrying amount Allowance for ECL
Stage 3 Stage 3
excluding Stage 3 excluding Stage 3 Net Coverage
Grading PD range Stage 1 Stage 2 POCI POCI Total Stage 1 Stage 2 POCI POCI Total exposure ratio
Credit quality
% description £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m %
Barclays Bank UK PLC
0.0 to
1-3 <0.05% Strong 5,334 107 — — 5,441 2 — — — 2 5,439 —
0.05 to
4-5 <0.15% Strong 2,135 — — — 2,135 2 — — — 2 2,133 0.1
0.15 to
6-8 <0.30% Strong 542 10 — — 552 1 — — — 1 551 0.2
0.30 to
9-11 <0.60% Strong 1,309 52 — — 1,361 5 1 — — 6 1,355 0.4
0.60 to
12-14 <2.15% Satisfactory 4,654 778 — — 5,432 31 23 — — 54 5,378 1.0
2.15 to
15-19 <11.35% Satisfactory 2,477 1,611 — — 4,088 22 40 — — 62 4,026 1.5
11.35 to
20-21 <100% Higher Risk 99 461 — — 560 2 13 — — 15 545 2.7
Credit
22 100% Impaired — — 1,464 — 1,464 — — 237 — 237 1,227 16.2
Total 16,550 3,019 1,464 — 21,033 65 77 237 — 379 20,654 1.8

[PAGE 128]

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk
Credit risk profile by internal PD grade for loans and advances at amortised cost (audited)
As at 31 December 2024 Gross carrying amount Allowance for ECL
Stage 3 Stage 3
excluding Stage 3 excluding Stage 3 Net Coverage
Grading PD range Stage 1 Stage 2 POCI POCI Total Stage 1 Stage 2 POCI POCI Total exposure ratio
Credit quality
% description £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m %
Barclays Bank UK PLC
0.0 to
1-3 <0.05% Strong 32,286 757 — — 33,043 4 — — — 4 33,039 —
0.05 to
4-5 <0.15% Strong 93,994 6,872 — — 100,866 21 3 — — 24 100,842 —
0.15 to
6-8 <0.30% Strong 20,523 4,436 — — 24,959 12 6 — — 18 24,941 0.1
0.30 to
9-11 <0.60% Strong 8,919 3,062 — — 11,981 17 14 — — 31 11,950 0.3
0.60 to
12-14 <2.15% Satisfactory 18,203 3,783 — — 21,986 249 56 — — 305 21,681 1.4
2.15 to
15-19 <11.35% Satisfactory 5,485 4,907 — — 10,392 89 271 — — 360 10,032 3.5
11.35 to
20-21 <100% Higher Risk 417 1,583 — — 2,000 41 329 — — 370 1,630 18.5
Credit
22 100% Impaired — — 3,425 57 3,482 — — 495 — 495 2,987 14.2
Total 179,827 25,400 3,425 57 208,709 433 679 495 — 1,607 207,102 0.8
Credit risk profile by internal PD grade for retail mortgages (audited)
As at 31 December 2023 Gross carrying amount Allowance for ECL
Stage 3 Stage 3
excluding Stage 3 excluding Stage 3 Net Coverage
Grading PD range Stage 1 Stage 2 POCI POCI Total Stage 1 Stage 2 POCI POCI Total exposure ratio
Credit quality
% description £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m %
Barclays Bank UK PLC
0.0 to
1-3 <0.05% Strong 25,758 587 — — 26,345 1 — — — 1 26,344 —
0.05 to
4-5 <0.15% Strong 58,652 3,384 — — 62,036 11 2 — — 13 62,023 —
0.15 to
6-8 <0.30% Strong 51,237 7,235 — — 58,472 19 8 — — 27 58,445 —
0.30 to
9-11 <0.60% Strong 5,921 2,447 — — 8,368 5 12 — — 17 8,351 0.2
0.60 to
12-14 <2.15% Satisfactory 1,029 3,037 — — 4,066 2 23 — — 25 4,041 0.6
2.15 to
15-19 <11.35% Satisfactory 191 1,993 — — 2,184 1 24 — — 25 2,159 1.1
11.35 to
20-21 <100% Higher Risk 118 398 — — 516 — 8 — — 8 508 1.6
Credit
22 100% Impaired — — 1,709 — 1,709 — — 107 — 107 1,602 6.3
Total 142,906 19,081 1,709 — 163,696 39 77 107 — 223 163,473 0.1

[PAGE 129]

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk
Credit risk profile by internal PD grade for retail credit cards (audited)
As at 31 December 2023 Gross carrying amount Allowance for ECL
Stage 3 Stage 3
excluding Stage 3 excluding Stage 3 Net Coverage
Grading PD range Stage 1 Stage 2 POCI POCI Total Stage 1 Stage 2 POCI POCI Total exposure ratio
Credit quality
% description £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m %
Barclays Bank UK PLC
0.0 to
1-3 <0.05% Strong 123 — — — 123 — — — — — 123 —
0.05 to
4-5 <0.15% Strong 975 4 — — 979 1 — — — 1 978 0.1
0.15 to
6-8 <0.30% Strong 980 4 — — 984 2 — — — 2 982 0.2
0.30 to
9-11 <0.60% Strong 1,038 6 — — 1,044 4 — — — 4 1,040 0.4
0.60 to
12-14 <2.15% Satisfactory 2,650 48 — — 2,698 27 3 — — 30 2,668 1.1
2.15 to
15-19 <11.35% Satisfactory 2,168 1,386 — — 3,554 62 193 — — 255 3,299 7.2
11.35 to
20-21 <100% Higher Risk 160 680 — — 840 15 296 — — 311 529 37.0
Credit
22 100% Impaired — — 198 — 198 — — 107 — 107 91 54.0
Total 8,094 2,128 198 — 10,420 111 492 107 — 710 9,710 6.8
Credit risk profile by internal PD grade for retail other (audited)
As at 31 December 2023 Gross carrying amount Allowance for ECL
Stage 3 Stage 3
excluding Stage 3 excluding Stage 3 Net Coverage
Grading PD range Stage 1 Stage 2 POCI POCI Total Stage 1 Stage 2 POCI POCI Total exposure ratio
Credit quality
% description £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m %
Barclays Bank UK PLC
0.0 to
1-3 <0.05% Strong 29 — — — 29 1 — — — 1 28 3.4
0.05 to
4-5 <0.15% Strong 218 3 — — 221 1 — — — 1 220 0.5
0.15 to
6-8 <0.30% Strong 365 6 — — 371 1 — — — 1 370 0.3
0.30 to
9-11 <0.60% Strong 1,099 50 — — 1,149 8 3 — — 11 1,138 1.0
0.60 to
12-14 <2.15% Satisfactory 1,234 235 — — 1,469 11 15 — — 26 1,443 1.8
2.15 to
15-19 <11.35% Satisfactory 513 473 — — 986 14 39 — — 53 933 5.4
11.35 to
20-21 <100% Higher Risk 18 160 — — 178 2 51 — — 53 125 29.8
Credit
22 100% Impaired — — 148 — 148 — — 113 — 113 35 76.4
Total 3,476 927 148 — 4,551 38 108 113 — 259 4,292 5.7

[PAGE 130]

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk
Credit risk profile by internal PD grade for corporate loans (audited)
As at 31 December 2023 Gross carrying amount Allowance for ECL
Stage 3 Stage 3
excluding Stage 3 excluding Stage 3 Net Coverage
Grading PD range Stage 1 Stage 2 POCI POCI Total Stage 1 Stage 2 POCI POCI Total exposure ratio
Credit quality
% description £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m %
Barclays Bank UK PLC
0.0 to
1-3 <0.05% Strong 8,029 3 — — 8,032 6 — — — 6 8,026 0.1
0.05 to
4-5 <0.15% Strong 1,845 — — — 1,845 2 — — — 2 1,843 0.1
0.15 to
6-8 <0.30% Strong 387 27 — — 414 1 1 — — 2 412 0.5
0.30 to
9-11 <0.60% Strong 1,443 64 — — 1,507 9 1 — — 10 1,497 0.7
0.60 to
12-14 <2.15% Satisfactory 5,303 1,282 — — 6,585 53 37 — — 90 6,495 1.4
2.15 to
15-19 <11.35% Satisfactory 2,748 2,326 — — 5,074 34 50 — — 84 4,990 1.7
11.35 to
20-21 <100% Higher Risk 126 633 — — 759 2 16 — — 18 741 2.4
Credit
22 100% Impaired — — 1,320 — 1,320 — — 252 — 252 1,068 19.1
Total 19,881 4,335 1,320 — 25,536 107 105 252 — 464 25,072 1.8
Credit risk profile by internal PD grade for loans and advances at amortised cost (audited)
As at 31 December 2023 Gross carrying amount Allowance for ECL
Stage 3 Stage 3
excluding Stage 3 excluding Stage 3 Net Coverage
Grading PD range Stage 1 Stage 2 POCI POCI Total Stage 1 Stage 2 POCI POCI Total exposure ratio
Credit quality
% description £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m %
Barclays Bank UK PLC
0.0 to
1-3 <0.05% Strong 33,939 590 — — 34,529 8 — — — 8 34,521 —
0.05 to
4-5 <0.15% Strong 61,690 3,391 — — 65,081 15 2 — — 17 65,064 —
0.15 to
6-8 <0.30% Strong 52,969 7,272 — — 60,241 23 9 — — 32 60,209 0.1
0.30 to
9-11 <0.60% Strong 9,501 2,567 — — 12,068 26 16 — — 42 12,026 0.3
0.60 to
12-14 <2.15% Satisfactory 10,216 4,602 — — 14,818 93 78 — — 171 14,647 1.2
2.15 to
15-19 <11.35% Satisfactory 5,620 6,178 — — 11,798 111 306 — — 417 11,381 3.5
11.35 to
20-21 <100% Higher Risk 422 1,871 — — 2,293 19 371 — — 390 1,903 17.0
Credit
22 100% Impaired — — 3,375 — 3,375 — — 579 — 579 2,796 17.2
Total 174,357 26,471 3,375 — 204,203 295 782 579 — 1,656 202,547 0.8

[PAGE 131]

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk
Credit risk profile by internal PD grade for contingent liabilities (audited)
As at 31 December 2024 Gross carrying amount Allowance for ECL
Stage 3 Stage 3
excluding Stage 3 excluding Stage 3 Net Coverage
Grading PD range Stage 1 Stage 2 POCI POCI Total Stage 1 Stage 2 POCI POCI Total exposure ratio
Credit quality
% description £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m %
Barclays Bank UK PLC
0.0 to
710 — — — 710 — — — — —
1-3 <0.05% Strong 710 —
0.05 to
— — — — — — — — — —
4-5 <0.15% Strong — —
0.15 to
— — — — — — — — — —
6-8 <0.30% Strong — —
0.30 to
— — — — — — — — — —
9-11 <0.60% Strong — —
0.60 to
— — — — — — — — — —
12-14 <2.15% Satisfactory — —
2.15 to
— — — — — — — — — —
15-19 <11.35% Satisfactory — —
11.35 to
— — — — — — — — — —
20-21 <100% Higher Risk — —
Credit
22 100% Impaired — — — — — — — — — — — —
Total 710 — — — 710 — — — — — 710 —
Credit risk profile by internal PD grade for contingent liabilities (audited)
As at 31 December 2023 Gross carrying amount Allowance for ECL
Stage 3 Stage 3
excluding Stage 3 excluding Stage 3 Net Coverage
Grading PD range Stage 1 Stage 2 POCI POCI Total Stage 1 Stage 2 POCI POCI Total exposure ratio
Credit quality
% description £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m %
Barclays Bank UK PLC
0.0 to
1-3 <0.05% Strong 661 — — — 661 — — — — — 661 —
0.05 to
4-5 <0.15% Strong — — — — — — — — — — — —
0.15 to
6-8 <0.30% Strong — — — — — — — — — — — —
0.30 to
9-11 <0.60% Strong — — — — — — — — — — — —
0.60 to
12-14 <2.15% Satisfactory — — — — — — — — — — — —
2.15 to
15-19 <11.35% Satisfactory — — — — — — — — — — — —
11.35 to
20-21 <100% Higher Risk — — — — — — — — — — — —
Credit
22 100% Impaired — — — — — — — — — — — —
Total 661 — — — 661 — — — — — 661 —

[PAGE 132]

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk
Credit risk profile by internal PD grade for loan commitments (audited)
As at 31 December 2024 Gross carrying amount Allowance for ECL
Stage 3 Stage 3
excluding Stage 3 excluding Stage 3 Net Coverage
Grading PD range Stage 1 Stage 2 POCI POCI Total Stage 1 Stage 2 POCI POCI Total exposure ratio
Credit quality
% description £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m %
Barclays Bank UK PLC
0.0 to
5,044 24 — 5,068 — — — — —
1-3 <0.05% Strong 5,068 —
0.05 to
14,082 247 — 14,329 1 — — — 1
4-5 <0.15% Strong 14,328 —
0.15 to
6,102 120 — 6,222 1 — — — 1
6-8 <0.30% Strong 6,221 —
0.30 to
14,877 164 — 15,041 1 — — — 1
9-11 <0.60% Strong 15,040 —
0.60 to
22,621 458 — 23,079 3 1 — — 4
12-14 <2.15% Satisfactory 23,075 —
2.15 to
1,727 739 — 2,466 2 4 — — 6
15-19 <11.35% Satisfactory 2,460 0.2
11.35 to
60 115 — 175 — 3 — — 3
20-21 <100% Higher Risk 172 1.7
Credit
22 100% Impaired — — 188 6 194 — — — — — 194 —
Total 64,513 1,867 188 6 66,574 8 8 — — 16 66,558 —
Credit risk profile by internal PD grade for loan commitments (audited)
As at 31 December 2023 Gross carrying amount Allowance for ECL
Stage 3 Stage 3
excluding Stage 3 excluding Stage 3 Net Coverage
Grading PD range Stage 1 Stage 2 POCI POCI Total Stage 1 Stage 2 POCI POCI Total exposure ratio
Credit quality
% description £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m %
Barclays Bank UK PLC
0.0 to
1-3 <0.05% Strong 5,101 23 — — 5,124 — — — — — 5,124 —
0.05 to
4-5 <0.15% Strong 12,334 202 — — 12,536 1 — — — 1 12,535 —
0.15 to
6-8 <0.30% Strong 7,531 260 — — 7,791 1 — — — 1 7,790 —
0.30 to
9-11 <0.60% Strong 10,694 192 — — 10,886 2 — — — 2 10,884 —
0.60 to
12-14 <2.15% Satisfactory 9,478 526 — — 10,004 2 1 — — 3 10,001 —
2.15 to
15-19 <11.35% Satisfactory 1,907 914 — — 2,821 1 5 — — 6 2,815 0.2
11.35 to
20-21 <100% Higher Risk 173 121 — — 294 4 10 — — 14 280 4.8
Credit
22 100% Impaired — — 190 — 190 — — — — — 190 —
Total 47,218 2,238 190 — 49,646 11 16 — — 27 49,619 —

[PAGE 133]

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk
Analysis of specific portfolios and asset types
Secured home loans
The UK home loan portfolio primarily comprises first lien mortgages and accounts for 100% of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s total home
loans balance.
Home loans principal portfolios
As at 31 December 2024 2024 2023
Gross loans and advances (£m) 163,197 163,639
>90 day arrears, excluding recovery book (%) 0.2 0.2
Annualised gross charge-off rates (%) 0.5 0.5
Recovery book proportion of outstanding balances (%) 0.6 0.6
Recovery book impairment coverage ratio (%)1 3.7 7.2
Note
1 Recovery Book Impairment Coverage Ratio excludes KMC.
Within the UK home loans portfolio:
▪ Gross loans and advances decreased by £0.4bn (0.3%) reflecting a £2.0bn (10.3%) decrease in Buy to Let, partially offset by a £1.6bn
(1.1%) increase in Residential.
▪ Owner-occupied interest-only home loans comprised 15% (2023: 17%) of total balances. The average balance weighted LTV on owner
occupied loans decreased to 52.7% (2023: 53.1%).
▪ BTL home loans comprised 11.0% (2023: 12.3%) of total balances. In BTL, the average balance weighted LTV decreased to 55.7% (2023:
56.9.%).
Home loans principal portfolios - distribution of balances by LTV1
Distribution of Balances Distribution of impairment allowance Coverage ratio
Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total
% % % % % % % % % % % %
As at 31 December 2024
<=75% 74.5 10.7 0.9 86.1 8.3 15.8 18.7 42.8 — 0.1 1.8 —
>75% and <=90% 11.8 1.2 0.1 13.1 10.2 24.2 9.7 44.1 0.1 1.7 13.0 0.3
>90% and <=100% 0.8 — — 0.8 1.3 2.3 4.0 7.6 0.1 4.9 35.8 0.8
>100% — — — — 0.2 1.4 3.9 5.5 1.6 45.9 68.7 24.8
As at 31 December 2023
<=75% 73.5 10.4 0.9 84.8 8.5 16.2 26.7 51.4 — 0.2 3.8 0.1
>75% and <=90% 12.3 1.2 0.1 13.6 7.4 16.7 12.8 36.9 0.1 1.9 27.9 0.4
>90% and <=100% 1.5 0.1 — 1.6 1.2 2.5 3.6 7.3 0.1 2.6 63.3 0.6
>100% — — — — 0.3 0.7 3.4 4.4 1.0 12.1 100.0 12.4
Note
1 Portfolio marked to market based on the most updated valuation including recovery book balances. Updated valuations reflect the application of the latest
HPI available as at 31 December 2024.
Home loans principal portfolios – average LTV
As at 31 December 2024 2024 2023
Overall portfolio LTV (%):
Balance weighted % 53.0 53.6
Valuation weighted % 39.7 40.0
For >100% LTVs:
Balances £m 30 75
Marked to market collateral £m 26 65
Average LTV: Balance weighted % 190.3 146.7
Average LTV: Valuation weighted % 142.0 123.6
% of Balances in Recoveries 30.7 11.5

[PAGE 134]

Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk
Home loans principal portfolios - new lending
As at 31 December 2024 2024 2023
New Home loan bookings (£m) 23,895 22,669
New home loan proportion above 90% LTV (%) 0.9 0.6
Average LTV on new home loan: balance weighted (%) 65.5 62.6
Average LTV on new home loan: valuation weighted (%) 56.3 53.8
New home loans bookings increased 5% to £23.9bn (2023: £22.7bn), mainly driven by interest rate reductions leading to lower
mortgage pricing and a corresponding increase in mortgage affordability and demand, along with a strategy to increase mortgage market
share.
Retail Credit Cards and Retail Other
The principal portfolios listed below accounted for 98% (2023: 94%) of Barclays Bank UK Group’s total retail credit cards and retail other.
Retail Credit Cards and Retail Other
30 Day Arrears, 90 Day Arrears, Annualised
excluding excluding Gross Write-off Annualised Net
Gross Exposure recoveries book recoveries book Rates Write-off Rates
£m % % % %
As at 31 December 2024
UK cards1 15,781 0.7 0.2 1.1 0.9
UK cards – excluding Tesco Bank cards 11,611 0.7 0.2 1.4 1.1
Tesco Bank cards1 4,170 0.8 0.3 0.1 0.1
UK personal loans1 8,051 1.0 0.4 0.7 0.5
UK personal loans – excluding Tesco Bank personal
loans 3,993 1.4 0.6 1.3 1.0
Tesco Bank personal loans1 4,058 0.5 0.2 0.1 0.0
As at 31 December 2023
UK cards 10,420 0.9 0.2 1.4 1.3
UK personal loans 3,641 1.5 0.6 1.3 1.0
Note
1 Tesco Bank arrears rates calculated using POCI balances adjusted to fair value. This has the impact of reducing the Tesco Bank arrears rates.
UK cards: Gross exposure increased from £10.4bn to £15.8bn due to the acquisition of Tesco Bank (£4.2bn) and growth in spend and
promotional balances. The inclusion of Tesco Bank had limited impact on arrears rates. Excluding Tesco Bank, 30 day arrears rates reduced
to 0.7% (2023: 0.9%) following lower inflow whilst 90 day arrears rates remained stable at 0.2% (2023: 0.2%). Gross and net write off rates
reduced to 1.1% (2023: 1.4%) and 0.9% (2023: 1.3%) reflecting limited write offs in the Tesco Bank cards portfolio post the acquisition.
Excluding Tesco Bank, gross and net write off rates remained relatively stable at 1.4% (2023: 1.4%) and 1.1% (2023: 1.3%) respectively.
UK personal loans: Gross exposure increased from £3.6bn to £8.1bn due to the purchase of Tesco Bank (£4.1bn) and growth in new
lending. 30 and 90 day arrears rates reduced to 1.0% (2023: 1.5%) and 0.4% (2023: 0.6%) respectively, reflecting the inclusion of Tesco
Bank. Excluding Tesco Bank, 30 and 90 day arrears rates remained broadly stable at 1.4% (2023: 1.5%) and 0.6% (2023: 0.6%)
respectively. Gross and net write off rates reduced to 0.7% (2023: 1.3%) and 0.5% (2023: 1.0%) reflecting limited write offs in the Tesco
Bank loans portfolio post the acquisition. Excluding Tesco Bank, gross and net write off rates remained stable at 1.3% (2023: 1.3%) and
1.0% (2023: 1.0%) respectively.

[PAGE 135]

Risk review
Risk performance
Market risk
All disclosures in this section are unaudited unless otherwise stated.
Overview
Market Risk within the Barclays Bank UK Group arises from the risk management of the assets held within the liquidity pool. As a result, the
market risk in the Barclays Bank UK Group is minimal. Transactions carrying market risk are executed by the Barclays Bank UK Group
Treasury function.
Management VaR (audited)
Management VaR estimates the potential loss arising from unfavourable market movements if the current positions were to be held
unchanged for one business day. For internal market risk management purposes, a historical simulation methodology with a one-year
equally weighted historical period, at the 95% confidence level, is used for all trading books and some banking books.
Limits are applied at the total level as well as by risk factor type, which are then cascaded down to particular trading desks and businesses
by the market risk management function.
Average management VaR in the Barclays Bank UK Group in 2024 was £0.5m (2023: £0.8m) and remained broadly stable throughout the
year. Management VaR in the Barclays Bank UK Group in 2024 was driven by interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk in Barclays Bank
UK Group Treasury.
Barclays Bank UK PLC adopts a standardised methodology for calculating capital requirements and as a result regulatory VaR is not
applicable while management VaR is used only for internal risk calculations.

[PAGE 136]

Risk review
Risk performance
Treasury and Capital risk
Summary of Contents Page
Liquidity risk performance
The risk that the firm is unable to meet its contractual or ▪ Overview 136
contingent obligations or that it does not have the
appropriate amount, tenor and composition of funding and
liquidity to support its assets. ▪ Liquidity risk stress testing 136
This section provides an overview of Barclays Bank UK ▪ Liquidity risk performance 136
Group’s liquidity risk.
Provides details on the contractual maturity of all financial ▪ Contractual maturity of financial assets and liabilities 138
instruments and other assets and liabilities.
Capital risk performance
Capital risk is the risk that the firm has an insufficient level or ▪ Capital risk overview 144
composition of capital to support its normal business
activities and to meet its regulatory capital requirements – Capital ratios 144
under normal operating environments or stressed conditions
(both actual and as defined for internal planning or regulatory – Capital resources 144
testing purposes). This also includes the risk from the firm’s
pension plans.
– Leverage ratios 144
This section details Barclays Bank UK PLC’s capital and
leverage position.
Interest rate risk in the banking book
performance
A description of the non-traded market risk framework is ▪ Interest rate risk in the banking book overview and 145
provided. summary of performance
Barclays Bank UK Group discloses a sensitivity analysis on ▪ Net interest income sensitivity 145
pre-tax net interest income for non-trading financial assets ▪ Analysis of equity sensitivity 145
and liabilities.
▪ Volatility of the FVOCI portfolio in the liquidity pool 146
Barclays Bank UK Group discloses the overall impact of a
parallel shift in interest rates on other comprehensive income
and cash flow hedges.
Barclays Bank UK Group measures the volatility of the value
of the FVOCI instruments in the liquidity pool through non-
traded market risk VaR.

[PAGE 137]

Risk review
Risk performance
Treasury and Capital risk
Liquidity risk
All disclosures in this section, pages 136 to 143, are unaudited unless otherwise stated.
Overview
The efficient management of liquidity is essential to the Barclays Bank UK Group in order to retain the confidence of markets and maintain
the sustainability of the business. The liquidity risk framework is used to manage all liquidity risk exposures under both Business-As-Usual
and stressed conditions. The framework is designed to maintain liquidity resources that are sufficient in amount, quality and funding tenor
profile to support the liquidity risk appetite as expressed by the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board. The liquidity risk appetite is monitored against
both internal and regulatory liquidity metrics.
Liquidity regulation
The Barclays Bank UK Group monitors its position against both the LCR (Liquidity Coverage Ratio) and NSFR (Net Stable Funding Ratio)
according to the PRA regulatory requirements which include certain Basel III standards that were retained in the UK regulatory framework
from 1 January 2022 as part of the UK's withdrawal from the EU.
The LCR is designed to promote short-term resilience of a bank’s liquidity risk profile by holding sufficient High Quality Liquid Assets
(HQLA) to survive an acute stress scenario lasting for 30 days. The LCR requirement takes into account the relative stability of different
sources of funding and potential incremental funding requirements in a stress. The NSFR has been developed to promote a sustainable and
stable structure of assets and liabilities.
Liquidity risk stress testing
The Internal Liquidity Stress Test (ILST) measures the potential contractual and contingent stress outflows under a range of stress
scenarios, which are then used to determine the size of the Liquidity Pool that is needed to meet anticipated outflows if a stress were to
occur. The scenarios include a 30 day Barclays-specific stress event, a 90 day market-wide stress event and a 30 day combined scenario
consisting of both a Barclays-specific and market-wide stress event. Barclays Bank UK Group also runs a liquidity stress test which
measures the anticipated outflows over a 12 month market-wide scenario.
As at 31 December 2024, Barclays Bank UK Group held eligible liquidity assets in excess of 100% of the net stress outflows as measured
according to its internal and external regulatory requirements. This includes the stress outflows derived from the acquisition of Tesco
Bank’s retail banking business on 1 November 2024. A significant portion of the Liquidity Pool was held in cash and deposits with the Bank
of England.
The Liquidity Pool increased to £67bn (December 2023: £65bn) and the LCR to 202% (December 2023: 180%) driven by an increase in
customer deposits.
As at 31.12.24 As at 31.12.23
£bn £bn
Barclays Bank UK Group liquidity pool 67 65
% %
Barclays Bank UK Group liquidity coverage ratio1 202 180
Note
1 Represents the average of the last 12 spot month end ratios.
Barclays Bank UK Group maintains access to a variety of sources of wholesale funds in major currencies, including those available from
term investors across a variety of distribution channels and geographies, short-term funding markets and repo markets. Key sources of
wholesale funding include money markets, certificates of deposit, commercial paper, covered bonds and other securitisations. This funding
capacity enables Barclays Bank UK Group to maintain a stable and diversified funding base.
Barclays Bank UK Group also supports various central bank monetary initiatives, such as the Bank of England’s Term Funding Scheme with
additional incentives for SMEs (TFSME). These are reported under ‘repurchase agreements and other similar secured borrowing’ on the
balance sheet. Barclays Bank UK Group had £15bn TFSME balances outstanding at the year-end.
Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR)
The NSFR metric requires banks to maintain a stable funding profile taking into account both on and certain off-balance sheet exposures
over a medium to long-term period. The ratio is defined as the Available Stable Funding (capital and certain liabilities which are treated as
stable sources of funding) relative to the Required Stable Funding (a measure of assets on the balance sheet and certain off-balance sheet
exposures which may require long term funding). The NSFR (average of the last four spot quarter end positions) was 159% at December
2024, equivalent to a surplus of £95bn above the regulatory requirement and demonstrates Barclays Bank UK Group’s stable funding
balance sheet profile.

[PAGE 138]

Risk review
Risk performance
Treasury and Capital risk
Net Stable Funding Ratio1 As at 31.12.24 As at 31.12.23
£bn £bn
Total Available stable funding 255 259
Total Required stable funding 160 157
Surplus 95 102
Net stable funding ratio 159% 165%
Note
1 Represents the average of the last four spot quarter end ratios.
As part of the liquidity risk appetite, Barclays establishes minimum LCR, NSFR and ILST limits. Barclays Bank UK Group plans to maintain its
surplus to the internal and regulatory requirements at an efficient level. Risks to market funding conditions, the liquidity position and
funding profile are assessed on an ongoing basis, and actions are taken to manage the size of the Liquidity Pool and the funding profile as
appropriate.

[PAGE 139]

Risk review
Risk performance
Treasury and Capital risk
Contractual maturity of financial assets and liabilities
The table below provides detail on the contractual maturity of all financial instruments and other assets and liabilities. Derivatives (other
than those designated in a hedging relationship) and trading portfolio assets and liabilities are included in the ‘not more than one month’
column at their fair value. Liquidity risk on these items is not managed on the basis of contractual maturity since they are not held for
settlement according to such maturity and will frequently be settled before contractual maturity at fair value. Derivatives designated in a
hedging relationship are included according to their contractual maturity.
Contractual maturity of financial assets and liabilities (audited)
Over one Over three Over six Over one Over three
month but months months year but years but
Not more not more but not but not not more not more
than one than three more than more than than three than five Over five
Barclays Bank UK Group month months six months one year years years years Total
As at 31 December 2024 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Assets
Cash and balances at central banks 29,819 — — — — — — 29,819
Cash collateral and settlement balances 6,002 — — — — — — 6,002
Debt securities at amortised cost — 658 508 2,397 4,838 479 9,103 17,983
Loans and advances at amortised cost to
banks and customers 2,748 877 1,184 2,576 12,640 11,194 175,497 206,716
Reverse repurchase agreements and other
similar secured lending 1,233 — 236 704 3,721 — — 5,894
Trading portfolio assets 242 — — — — — — 242
Financial assets at fair value through the
income statement — 1 22 17 73 78 1,352 1,543
Derivative financial instruments 156 272 179 711 513 57 13 1,901
Financial assets at fair value through other
comprehensive income 52 65 241 710 8,488 11,364 6,125 27,045
Other financial assets 247 — 15 1 1 — 1 265
Total financial assets 40,499 1,873 2,385 7,116 30,274 23,172 192,091 297,410
Other assets 5,769
Total assets 303,179
Liabilities
Deposits at amortised cost from banks and
customers 212,893 7,194 7,722 14,320 1,886 260 186 244,461
Cash collateral and settlement balances 1,779 — — — — — — 1,779
Repurchase agreements and other similar
secured borrowing 308 — — 5,061 10,122 15 — 15,506
Debt securities in issue 16 — — — 1,056 748 799 2,619
Subordinated liabilities — 882 983 — 3,445 2,187 6,015 13,512
Trading portfolio liabilities 726 — — — — — — 726
Financial liabilities designated at fair value 2,848 — — — — — — 2,848
Derivative financial instruments 163 — — 17 97 8 15 300
Other financial liabilities 1,069 — 10 19 48 20 24 1,190
Total financial liabilities 219,802 8,076 8,715 19,417 16,654 3,238 7,039 282,941
Other liabilities 1,653
Total liabilities 284,594

[PAGE 140]

Risk review
Risk performance
Treasury and Capital risk
Contractual maturity of financial assets and liabilities (audited)
Over one Over three Over six Over one Over three
month but months months year but years but
Not more not more but not but not not more not more
than one than three more than more than than three than five Over five
Barclays Bank UK Group month months six months one year years years years Total
As at 31 December 2023 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Assets
Cash and balances at central banks 34,948 — — — — — — 34,948
Cash collateral and settlement balances 5,507 — — — — — — 5,507
Debt securities at amortised cost — — 279 790 5,593 3,586 7,546 17,794
Loans and advances at amortised cost to
banks and customers 2,765 304 1,432 1,256 8,671 9,446 178,121 201,995
Reverse repurchase agreements and other
similar secured lending 2,041 382 — 449 695 — — 3,567
Trading portfolio assets 43 — — — — — — 43
Financial assets at fair value through the
income statement — — — — 104 103 1,509 1,716
Derivative financial instruments 249 — 91 160 796 270 — 1,566
Financial assets at fair value through other
comprehensive income 511 747 82 4,281 4,842 6,414 3,532 20,409
Other financial assets 157 — 25 1 1 — 2 186
Total financial assets 46,221 1,433 1,909 6,937 20,702 19,819 190,710 287,731
Other assets 5,828
Total assets 293,559
Liabilities
Deposits at amortised cost from banks and
customers 218,849 5,109 2,415 9,498 5,353 — — 241,224
Cash collateral and settlement balances 1,370 — — — — — — 1,370
Repurchase agreements and other similar
secured borrowing 68 — — — 8,105 7,092 — 15,265
Debt securities in issue 1,731 — — — — 663 913 3,307
Subordinated liabilities — — — 380 3,066 2,894 5,159 11,499
Trading portfolio liabilities 908 — — — — — — 908
Financial liabilities designated at fair value 196 — — — — — — 196
Derivative financial instruments 311 — — 23 54 10 — 398
Other financial liabilities 1,146 — 11 21 64 22 32 1,296
Total financial liabilities 224,579 5,109 2,426 9,922 16,642 10,681 6,104 275,463
Other liabilities 1,235
Total liabilities 276,698

[PAGE 141]

Risk review
Risk performance
Treasury and Capital risk
Contractual maturity of financial assets and liabilities (audited)
Over one Over three Over six Over one Over three
month but months months year but years but
Not more not more but not but not not more not more
than one than three more than more than than three than five Over five
Barclays Bank UK PLC month months six months one year years years years Total
As at 31 December 2024 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Assets
Cash and balances at central banks 29,819 — — — — — — 29,819
Cash collateral and settlement balances 6,002 — — — — — — 6,002
Debt securities at amortised cost — 658 508 2,397 4,838 479 9,103 17,983
Loans and advances at amortised cost to
banks and customers 3,096 922 1,184 2,599 12,627 11,177 175,497 207,102
Reverse repurchase agreements and other
similar secured lending 1,233 — 236 704 3,721 — — 5,894
Trading portfolio assets 242 — — — — — — 242
Financial assets at fair value through the
income statement — 1 22 17 73 78 1,352 1,543
Derivative financial instruments 156 272 179 711 513 57 13 1,901
Financial assets at fair value through other
comprehensive income 52 65 241 710 8,488 11,364 6,125 27,045
Other financial assets 247 — 35 — 1 — 1 284
Total financial assets 40,847 1,918 2,405 7,138 30,261 23,155 192,091 297,815
Other assets 5,756
Total assets 303,571
Liabilities
Deposits at amortised cost from banks and
customers 213,378 7,194 7,722 14,320 2,435 209 186 245,444
Cash collateral and settlement balances 1,779 — — — — — — 1,779
Repurchase agreements and other similar
secured borrowing 308 — — 5,061 10,122 15 — 15,506
Debt securities in issue 15 — — — 503 748 799 2,065
Subordinated liabilities — 882 983 — 3,445 2,167 6,035 13,512
Trading portfolio liabilities 726 — — — — — — 726
Financial liabilities designated at fair value 2,848 — — — — — — 2,848
Derivative financial instruments 182 — — 17 97 8 15 319
Other financial liabilities 1,093 — 10 19 48 20 24 1,214
Total financial liabilities 220,329 8,076 8,715 19,417 16,650 3,167 7,059 283,413
Other liabilities 1,589
Total liabilities 285,002

[PAGE 142]

Risk review
Risk performance
Treasury and Capital risk
Contractual maturity of financial assets and liabilities (audited)
Over one Over three Over six Over one Over three
month but months months year but years but
Not more not more but not but not not more not more
than one than three more than more than than three than five Over five
Barclays Bank UK PLC month months six months one year years years years Total
As at 31 December 2023 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Assets
Cash and balances at central banks 34,948 — — — — — — 34,948
Cash collateral and settlement balances 5,507 — — — — — — 5,507
Debt securities at amortised cost — — 279 790 5,593 3,586 7,546 17,794
Loans and advances at amortised cost to
3,074 547 1,432 1,256 8,671 9,446 178,121 202,547
banks and customers
Reverse repurchase agreements and other
2,041 382 — 449 695 — — 3,567
similar secured lending
Trading portfolio assets 43 — — — — — — 43
Financial assets at fair value through the
1 — 1 1 104 103 1,506 1,716
income statement
Derivative financial instruments 249 — 91 160 796 270 — 1,566
Financial assets at fair value through other
511 747 82 4,281 4,842 6,414 3,532 20,409
comprehensive income
Other financial assets 158 — 33 — 1 — 2 194
Total financial assets 46,532 1,676 1,918 6,937 20,702 19,819 190,707 288,291
Other assets 5,813
Total assets 294,104
Liabilities
Deposits at amortised cost from banks and
219,499 5,109 2,415 9,498 5,353 — — 241,874
customers
Cash collateral and settlement balances 1,370 — — — — — — 1,370
Repurchase agreements and other similar
68 — — — 8,105 7,092 — 15,265
secured borrowing
Debt securities in issue 1,731 — — — — 663 913 3,307
Subordinated liabilities — — — 380 3,066 2,873 5,180 11,499
Trading portfolio liabilities 908 — — — — — — 908
Financial liabilities designated at fair value 196 — — — — — — 196
Derivative financial instruments 340 — — 23 54 10 — 427
Other financial liabilities 1,139 — 11 21 64 22 32 1,289
Total financial liabilities 225,251 5,109 2,426 9,922 16,642 10,660 6,125 276,135
Other liabilities 1,161
Total liabilities 277,296
Expected maturity date may differ from the contractual dates, to account for:
▪ trading portfolio assets and liabilities and derivative financial instruments, which may not be held to maturity as part of Barclays Bank UK
Group’s trading strategies
▪ retail and business bank deposits, which are included within deposits at amortised cost, are repayable on demand or at short notice on a
contractual basis. In practice, these instruments form a stable base for Barclays Bank UK Group’s operations and liquidity needs because
of the broad base of customers, both numerically and by depositor type
▪ loans to retail and business bank customers, which are included within loans and advances at amortised cost and financial assets at fair
value, may be repaid earlier in line with terms and conditions of the contract
▪ debt securities in issue and subordinated liabilities may include early redemption features
Contractual maturity of financial liabilities on an undiscounted basis
The table on the next page presents the cash flows payable by Barclays Bank UK Group under financial liabilities by remaining contractual
maturities at the balance sheet date. The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows of all financial
liabilities (i.e. nominal values).
The balances in the table do not agree directly to the balances in the consolidated balance sheet as the table incorporates all cash flows, on
an undiscounted basis, related to both principal as well as those associated with all future coupon payments.
Derivative financial instruments held for trading and trading portfolio liabilities are included in the ‘not more than one month’ column at
their fair value.

[PAGE 143]

Risk review
Risk performance
Treasury and Capital risk
Contractual maturity of financial liabilities - undiscounted (audited)
Over one Over three Over six Over three
month but months but months but Over one years but
Not more not more not more not more year but not not more
than one than three than six than one more than than five Over five
month months months year three years years years Total
Barclays Bank UK Group £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
As at 31 December 2024
Deposits at amortised cost from
banks and customers 212,893 7,305 7,891 14,684 1,977 271 263 245,284
Cash collateral and settlement
balances 1,779 — — — — — — 1,779
Repurchase agreements and other
similar secured borrowing 308 — — 5,232 10,875 17 — 16,432
Debt securities in issue 16 5 7 14 1,143 887 1,063 3,135
Subordinated liabilities — 889 991 — 3,732 2,597 8,465 16,674
Trading portfolio liabilities 726 — — — — — — 726
Financial liabilities designated at
fair value 2,848 — — — — — — 2,848
Derivative financial instruments 163 — — 17 107 10 18 315
Other financial liabilities 1,071 1 11 21 53 24 37 1,218
Total financial liabilities 219,804 8,200 8,900 19,968 17,887 3,806 9,846 288,411
As at 31 December 2023
Deposits at amortised cost from
218,880 5,178 2,491 9,804 5,580 — — 241,933
banks and customers
Cash collateral and settlement
1,370 — — — — — — 1,370
balances
Repurchase agreements and other
68 — — — 8,868 7,902 — 16,838
similar secured borrowing
Debt securities in issue 1,732 — — — — 778 1,246 3,756
Subordinated liabilities — — — 391 3,256 3,397 7,089 14,133
Trading portfolio liabilities 908 — — — — — — 908
Financial liabilities designated at
196 — — — — — — 196
fair value
Derivative financial instruments 311 — — 24 59 12 — 406
Other financial liabilities 1,147 — 12 24 72 26 47 1,328
Total financial liabilities 224,612 5,178 2,503 10,243 17,835 12,115 8,382 280,868

[PAGE 144]

Risk review
Risk performance
Treasury and Capital risk
Contractual maturity of financial liabilities - undiscounted (audited)
Over one Over three Over six Over three
month but months but months but Over one years but
Not more not more not more not more year but not not more
than one than three than six than one more than than five Over five
month months months year three years years years Total
Barclays Bank UK PLC £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
As at 31 December 2024
Deposits at amortised cost from
213,378 7,310 7,898 14,698 2,542 221 263 246,310
banks and customers
Cash collateral and settlement
1,779 — — — — — — 1,779
balances
Repurchase agreements and other
308 — — 5,232 10,875 17 — 16,432
similar secured borrowing
Debt securities in issue 15 — — — 574 887 1,063 2,539
Subordinated liabilities — 889 991 — 3,732 2,577 8,485 16,674
Trading portfolio liabilities 726 — — — — — — 726
Financial liabilities designated at fair
2,848 — — — — — — 2,848
value
Derivative financial instruments 182 — — 17 108 10 18 335
Other financial liabilities 1,094 1 11 21 53 24 37 1,241
Total financial liabilities 220,330 8,200 8,900 19,968 17,884 3,736 9,866 288,884
As at 31 December 2023
Deposits at amortised cost from
219,529 5,178 2,491 9,804 5,580 — — 242,582
banks and customers
Cash collateral and settlement
1,370 — — — — — — 1,370
balances
Repurchase agreements and other
68 — — — 8,868 7,902 — 16,838
similar secured borrowing
Debt securities in issue 1,732 — — — — 778 1,246 3,756
Subordinated liabilities — — — 391 3,256 3,376 7,110 14,133
Trading portfolio liabilities 908 — — — — — — 908
Financial liabilities designated at fair
196 — — — — — — 196
value
Derivative financial instruments 340 — — 23 59 12 — 434
Other financial liabilities 1,142 — 12 24 71 26 47 1,322
Total financial liabilities 225,285 5,178 2,503 10,242 17,834 12,094 8,403 281,539
Maturity of off-balance sheet commitments given (audited)
The maturity split of off-balance sheet commitments given (see Note 23 on page 224) represents the undiscounted cash flows (i.e. nominal
values) on the basis of the earliest opportunity at which they are available. All off-balance sheet commitments given for both Barclays Bank
UK Group and Barclays Bank UK PLC are under not more than one month maturity.

[PAGE 145]

Risk review
Risk performance
Treasury and Capital risk
Capital risk
All disclosures in this section, page 144, are unaudited unless otherwise stated.
Overview
The disclosures below provide key capital metrics for the Barclays Bank UK Group with further information on its risk profile included in the
Barclays Bank UK PLC Pillar 3 Report 2024, due to be published on 13 February 2025 and which will be available at home.barclays/investor-
relations/reports-and-events/annual-reports.
As at 31 December 2024, the Barclays Bank UK Group CET1 ratio was 14.2% which is above its minimum regulatory requirement of 12.9%.
Capital ratios1,2 As at 31.12.24 As at 31.12.23
CET1 14.2% 14.8%
Tier 1 (T1) 17.1% 18.1%
Total regulatory capital 20.5% 21.6%
Capital resources (audited) £m £m
CET1 capital 11,895 10,638
T1 capital 14,320 13,067
Total regulatory capital 17,155 15,596
Total risk weighted assets (RWAs) (unaudited) 83,639 72,102
Notes
1 As at 31 December 2024, capital and RWA were calculated applying the IFRS 9 transitional arrangements in accordance with UK CRR. Effective from 1
January 2025, the transitional arrangements no longer applied.
2 The fully loaded CET1 ratio was 14.2%, with £11.9bn of CET1 capital and £83.6bn of RWAs, calculated without applying the transitional arrangements in
accordance with UK CRR.
Leverage ratios and exposures
The Barclays Bank UK Group is required to disclose a UK leverage ratio based on capital and exposure on the last day of the quarter.
Additionally, it is also required to disclose an average UK leverage ratio based on capital on the last day of each month in the quarter and an
exposure measure for each day in the quarter.
As at 31 December 2024, the Barclays Bank UK Group UK leverage ratio was 5.3% which is above the minimum leverage ratio requirement
of 4.3%.
As at 31.12.24 As at 31.12.23
Leverage ratios1,2 £m £m
UK leverage ratio3 5.3 % 5.2 %
T1 Capital 14,320 13,067
UK leverage exposure 268,452 250,163
Average UK leverage ratio 5.4 % 5.2 %
Average T1 Capital 14,336 13,072
Average UK leverage exposure 265,661 251,762
Notes
1 As at 31 December 2024, capital and leverage were calculated applying the IFRS 9 transitional arrangements in accordance with UK CRR. Effective from 1
January 2025, the transitional arrangements no longer applied.
2 Fully loaded UK leverage ratio was 5.3%, with £14.3bn of T1 capital and £268.4bn of leverage exposure. Fully loaded average UK leverage ratio was 5.4%
with £14.3bn of T1 capital and £265.6bn of leverage exposure. Fully loaded UK leverage ratios are calculated without applying the transitional arrangements
in accordance with UK CRR
3 Although the leverage ratio is expressed in terms of T1 capital, the leverage ratio buffers and 75% of the minimum requirement must be covered solely with
CET1 capital. The CET1 capital held against the 0.35% Other Systemically Important Institutions (O-SII) additional leverage ratio buffer (ALRB) was £0.9bn
and against the 0.7% countercyclical leverage ratio buffer (CCLB) was £1.9bn.

[PAGE 146]

Risk review
Risk performance
Treasury and Capital risk
Interest rate risk in the banking book
All disclosures in this section, pages 145 to 146, are unaudited unless otherwise stated.
Overview
The treasury and capital risk framework covers interest rate sensitive exposures held in the banking book, mostly relating to accrual
accounted and fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI) instruments. The potential volatility of Net Interest Income (NII) is
measured by an Annual Earnings at Risk (AEaR) metric which is monitored regularly and reported to senior management and the Barclays
Bank UK PLC Board Risk Committee as part of the limit monitoring framework.
Summary of performance in the period
NII sensitivity to a -25bp shock has decreased due to changes in balance sheet composition of the banking book during the year. NII
sensitivity asymmetry is due to the timing impact of customer rate changes following the rate shock.
Key metrics
(£50)m
AEaR across the Barclays Bank UK Group from a -25bps shock to forward interest rate curves.
Analysis of net interest income and equity sensitivity
The analysis of equity sensitivity measures the overall impact of a +/- 25bps movement in interest rates on net interest income, fair value
through other comprehensive income, and cash flow hedge reserves using approaches below:
• NII sensitivity for non-traded financial assets and liabilities, including the effect of any hedging utilising the Net Interest Income (NII)
metric as described on page 137 of the Barclays Bank UK PLC Pillar 3 Report 2024 (unaudited), which includes documentation of the
main model assumptions. This analysis is not a forward guidance on NII and is intended as a quantification of risk exposure.
• For non-NII items, a DV01 metric is used which represents a change in value for a one basis point shift in the yield curve.
Analysis of equity sensitivity (audited) 31 December 2024 31 December 2023
+25 basis -25 basis +25 basis -25 basis
points points points points
Barclays Bank UK Group £m £m £m £m
Net interest income 51 (70) 45 (78)
Taxation effects on the above (14) 20 (12) 22
Effect on profit for the year 37 (50) 33 (56)
As percentage of net profit after tax 1.4% (1.9%) 1.7% (2.9%)
Effect on profit for the year (per above) 37 (50) 33 (56)
Fair value through other comprehensive income reserve 5 (5) (13) 13
Cash flow hedge reserve (345) 345 (153) 153
Taxation effects on the above 95 (95) 46 (46)
Effect on equity (208) 195 (87) 64
As percentage of equity (1.1%) 1.1% (0.5%) 0.4%

[PAGE 147]

Risk review
Risk performance
Treasury and Capital risk
Analysis of equity sensitivity (audited) 31 December 2024 31 December 2023
+25 basis -25 basis +25 basis -25 basis
points points points points
Barclays Bank UK PLC £m £m £m £m
Net interest income 51 (70) 45 (78)
Taxation effects on the above (14) 20 (12) 22
Effect on profit for the year 37 (50) 33 (56)
As percentage of net profit after tax 1.4% (1.9)% 1.9% (3.2)%
Effect on profit for the year (per above) 37 (50) 33 (56)
Fair value through other comprehensive income reserve 5 (5) (13) 13
Cash flow hedge reserve (345) 345 (153) 153
Taxation effects on the above 95 (95) 46 (46)
Effect on equity (208) 195 (87) 64
As percentage of equity (1.1%) 1.1% (0.5%) 0.4%
Movements in the FVOCI reserve impact CET1 capital, however the movement in the cash flow hedge reserve does not affect CET1 capital.
Volatility of the FVOCI portfolio in the liquidity pool
Changes in value of FVOCI exposures flow directly through equity via the FVOCI reserve. The volatility of the value of the FVOCI
investments in the liquidity pool is captured and managed through a value measure rather than an earning measure, i.e. non-traded market
risk VaR.
Although the underlying methodology to calculate the non-traded VaR is identical to the one used in traded management VaR, the two
measures are not directly comparable. The non-traded VaR represents the volatility to capital driven by the FVOCI exposures. These
exposures are in the banking book and do not meet the criteria for trading book treatment.
Analysis of volatility of the FVOCI portfolio in the liquidity pool
2024 2023
Average High Low Average High Low
For the year ended 31 December £m £m £m £m £m £m
Non-traded market value at risk (daily, 95%) 9 11 6 11 14 9
Daily Value at Risk has been lower on average in 2024 relative to 2023 driven by a combination of position changes and market volatility
reduction.

[PAGE 148]

Risk review
Risk performance
Operational risk
All disclosures in this section, pages 147 to 149, are unaudited unless otherwise stated.
Overview
Operational risks are inherent in the Barclays Bank UK Group’s business activities, and it is not cost effective or possible to attempt to
eliminate all operational risks. The Operational Risk Framework is therefore focused on identifying operational risks, assessing them and
managing them within the Barclays Bank UK Group’s approved risk appetite.
The operational risk principal risk comprises the following risks: Change Delivery Management Risk, Data Management Risk; Financial
Reporting Risk; Fraud Risk; Information Security Risk; Operational Recovery Planning Risk; Payments Process Risk; People Risk; Physical
Security Risk; Premises Risk; Risk Reporting; Supplier Risk; Tax Risk; Technology Risk and Transaction Operations Risk. The operational risk
profile is also informed by a number of connected risks: Cybersecurity, Data, and Resilience. These themes represent threats to the Barclays
Bank UK Group that extend across multiple risk types, and therefore require an integrated risk management approach.
For definitions of these risks refer to pages 140 to 141 of the Barclays Bank UK PLC Pillar 3 Report 2024. To provide complete coverage of
the potential adverse impacts on the Barclays Bank UK Group arising from operational risk, the operational risk taxonomy extends beyond
the risks listed above to cover operational risks associated with other principal risks too.
This section provides an analysis of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s operational risk profile, including events above the Barclays Bank UK
Group’s reportable threshold, which have had a financial impact in 2024. The Barclays Bank UK Group’s operational risk profile is informed
by bottom-up risk assessments undertaken by each business unit and top-down qualitative review for each risk type. Fraud, Transaction
Operations, Information Security and Technology continue to be highlighted as key operational risk exposures.
For information on compliance risk events, see the compliance risk section.
Summary of performance in the period
During 2024, total operational risk losses1 fell to £74m (2023: £84m) while the number of recorded events for 2024 decreased to 1,446
(2023: 2,054). The total operational risk losses for the year were mainly driven by events falling within the Execution, Delivery & Process
Management and External Fraud categories, which tend to be high volume but low impact events.
Note
1 The data disclosed includes operational risk losses for reportable events impacting the Barclays Bank UK Group business areas, having impact of > £10,000
and excludes events that are compliance or legal risk, aggregate and boundary events. A boundary event is an operational risk event that results in a credit
risk impact. Due to the nature of risk events that keep evolving, prior year losses are updated.
Key metrics
88%
of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s reportable operational risk events had a loss value of £50,000 or less
94%
of events by number are due to External Fraud
Operational risk profile
Within operational risk, there are a large number of smaller value risk events. In 2024, 88% (2023: 84%) of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s
reportable operational risk events by volume had a value of less than £50,000 each. Cumulatively, events under this £50,000 threshold
accounted for only 35% (2023: 43%) of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s total net operational risk losses. A small proportion of operational
risk events have a material impact on the financial results of the Barclays Bank UK Group.

[PAGE 149]

Risk review
Risk performance
Operational risk
The analysis below presents the Barclays Bank UK Group’s operational risk events by Basel event category1:
Operational risk events by BASEL event category
% of total risk events by count % of total risk events by value
Internal Fraud Internal Fraud
2024 .1% 2024 .1%
2023 .2% 2023 .7%
External Fraud External Fraud
2024 93.6% 2024 54.4%
2023 94.7% 2023 82.1%
Execution Delivery and Process Management Execution Delivery and Process Management
2024 6.2% 2024 10.7%
2023 4.8% 2023 15.1%
Employment Practices and Workplace Safety Employment Practices and Workplace Safety
2024 0% 2024 0%
2023 0% 2023 0%
Damage to Physical Assets Damage to Physical Assets
2024 0.1% 2024 34.8%
2023 0.1% 2023 2.1%
Clients, Products and Business Practices Clients, Products and Business Practices
2024 0% 2024 0%
2023 0% 2023 0%
Business Disruption and System Failures Business Disruption and System Failures
2024 0.1% 2024 0%
2023 0% 2023 0.1%
Note
1 The data disclosed includes operational risk losses for reportable events impacting the Barclays Bank UK Group business areas, having impact of > £10,000
and excludes events that are compliance or legal risk, aggregate and boundary events. A boundary event is an operational risk event that results in a credit
risk impact. Due to the nature of risk events that keep evolving, prior year losses are updated.
▪ External Fraud remains the category with the highest frequency of events at 94% of total events in 2024 (2023: 95%) with number of
events decreased to 1,353 (2023: 1,946). Losses decreased to £40m accounting for 54% of total losses (2023: £69m / 82%). In this
category, high volume, low value events are driven by transactional fraud often related to debit and credit card usage. Note: Total
External Fraud losses in 2024 including those from events with impacts <£10,000 amounted to £105m (2023: £118m).
▪ Execution, Delivery and Process Management impacts decreased to £8m (2023: £13m), accounting for 11% of overall operational risk
losses (2023: 15%). The events in this category are typical of the banking industry as a whole where high volumes of transactions are
processed on a daily basis, mapping mainly to Barclays Transaction Operations risk type. The volume of events in this category decreased
year-on-year to 90 (2023: 99), accounting for 6% of total events (2023: 5%).

[PAGE 150]

Risk review
Risk performance
Operational risk
▪ Damage to physical assets increased to 35% of losses by value in 2024 (2023: 2%) primarily as a result of Barclays branches being
targeted by protesters.
Investment continues to be made in improving the control environment across the Barclays Bank UK Group. Specific areas of focus include
new and enhanced fraud prevention systems and tools to combat the increasing level of fraud attempts being made whilst minimising
disruption to genuine transactions. Fraud remains an industry wide threat and the Barclays Bank UK Group continues to work closely with
external partners on various prevention initiatives.
Fraudsters use various techniques to target customers and colleagues directly (i.e., Third Party Fraud), or the Barclays Bank UK Group
directly (i.e., First Party Fraud). In the UK and Europe, Authorised Push Payment (APP) Scams is a growing fraud type where customers are
deceived to transfer funds from their account to a bad actor. Fraud can also be committed by one or more employees and workers of any
entity (i.e., Internal Fraud) or any unauthorised trading fraud. Additionally, the Barclays Bank UK Group continues to invest in its processing
infrastructure to manage the risk of processing errors as well as ensuring scalability of operations.
Operational Resilience remains a key area of focus for the Barclays Bank UK Group, having been reinforced in recent years due to potential
operational disruption from the COVID-19 pandemic. The Barclays Bank UK Group continues to strengthen its resilience approach across
its most important business services to improve recoverability and assurance thereof by reviewing scenarios based on current global
climates.
Operational risk associated with cybersecurity remains a top focus for the Barclays Bank UK Group. The sophistication of threat actors
continues to grow as noted by multiple external risk events observed throughout the year. Cybersecurity incidents across the global
Barclays supplier base and financial market intermediaries were observed, and we worked closely with the affected parties to manage
potential impacts to the Barclays Bank UK Group and its clients and customers. The Barclays Bank UK Group’s cybersecurity incidents did
not materially impact the Barclays Bank UK Group's business strategy, results of operations, or financial condition.
For further information, refer to the operational risk management section.

[PAGE 151]

Risk review
Risk performance
Model risk, Compliance risk, Reputation risk, Legal risk
All disclosures in this section, pages 150 and 151, are unaudited unless otherwise stated.
Model risk
The Barclays Bank UK Group is committed to continually improving model risk management and made a number of enhancements in
2024, including:
• Continued focus on improving model risk control framework.
• Established a programme to meet PRA’s Supervisory Statement 1/23 Model risk management principles for banks.
• Development of a governance framework for approaches which rely on subject matter expert judgement and establishing initial
inventory.
• Enhanced quantitative model risk assessment to cover most significant model suites.
• Introduced Artificial Intelligence (AI) Policy, Development of approach to AI validation, and design of associated governance
framework.
• Expanded Model Risk Framework to provide transparency around risk themes (Data and Technology) outside the Model Risk
Framework that may impact model outputs.
Compliance risk
The Barclays Bank UK Group is committed to continuing to drive the right culture throughout all levels of the organisation. The Barclays
Bank UK Group will continue to enhance effective management of Compliance Risk and appropriately consider the relevant tools,
governance and management information in decision-making processes. Focus on the management of Compliance Risk is ongoing and,
alongside other relevant business and control management information, the Barclays Bank UK Group Compliance Risk Dashboards is a key
component of this.
The Barclays Bank UK Group continues to review the role and impact of Compliance Risk events and issues in the remuneration process at
both the individual and business level.
In 2024, the Barclays Bank UK Group maintained focus on new and heightened inherent Compliance Risks, including those relating to the
cost of living crisis, the evolving threat landscape as related to financial crime, and challenges in ensuring customer and client data is
handled appropriately. These risks continue to be monitored on an ongoing basis.
A key area of focus has been the ongoing implementation and embedment of the FCA’s Consumer Duty, with further rules for closed
products and services taking effect at the end July 2024.
Businesses have continued to assess the potential customer, client and market impacts of strategic change. As part of the 2024 Medium-
Term Planning Process and associated Strategic Risk Assessment, material Compliance Risks associated with strategic and financial plans
were assessed.
Throughout 2024, Compliance Risks were raised by each business area for consideration by the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board Risk
Committee. The Committee reviewed the risks raised and whether management’s proposed actions were appropriate to mitigate the risks
effectively.
During 2024, laws, rules and regulation risk (LRR risk) was embedded as a new risk under the Compliance Principal risk. LRR is intended to
mitigate the risk of failing to identify applicable LRRs, and ensure appropriate steps are in place to monitor and oversee LRRs. Work is
underway to implement processes to support the management and oversight of LRR Risk.
The Barclays Bank UK Group continued to incur costs in relation to litigation and conduct matters, please refer to Note 24 Legal,
competition and regulatory matters and Note 22 Provisions, for further details. Costs include customer redress and remediation. Resolution
of these matters remains a necessary and important part of delivering the Barclays Bank UK Group’s strategy and an ongoing commitment
to improve oversight of culture and conduct.
The Barclays Bank UK PLC Board Risk Committee and senior management received Compliance Risk Dashboards setting out key indicators
in relation to Compliance and financial crime risk. These continue to be evolved and enhanced to allow effective oversight and decision-
making. Work is ongoing to enhance the Compliance Risk Control Environment in a timely and effective manner to ensure the Barclays
Bank UK Group operates within Risk Appetite. The tolerance adherence is assessed by the business through key indicators and reported to
the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board Risk Committee as part of the Compliance Risk Dashboard governance process.
The Barclays Bank UK Group remains focused on the continuous improvements being made to manage risk effectively with an emphasis on
enhancing governance and management information to identify risk at earlier stages.
For further details on the non-financial performance measures, please refer to page 6 of the Strategic Report.

[PAGE 152]

Risk review
Risk performance
Model risk, Compliance risk, Reputation risk, Legal risk
Reputation risk
Barclays Bank UK Group is committed to identifying reputation risks and issues as early as possible and managing them appropriately. At a
Barclays Bank UK Group level throughout 2024, reputation risks and issues were overseen by the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board. The top live
and emerging reputation risks and issues within the Barclays Bank UK Group are included within an over-arching quarterly report at the
respective Board level. The Barclays Bank UK PLC Board reviews reputation risks raised by businesses and considered whether
management’s proposed actions, for example attaching conditions to proposed client transactions or increased engagement with
impacted stakeholders, were appropriate to mitigate the risks effectively. The Board also received regular updates with regard to key
reputation risks and issues, including: Barclays’ response to the cost of living crisis; Barclays’ association with sensitive sectors; access to
banking; lending practices and the resilience of key Barclays systems and processes.
The Barclays Bank UK Group continued to incur costs in relation to litigation and conduct matters, please refer to Note 24 Legal,
competition and regulatory matters and Note 22 Provisions, for further details. Costs include customer redress and remediation, as well as
fines and settlements. Resolution of these matters remains an ongoing commitment to improve oversight of culture and conduct and
management of reputation risks.
As part of Barclays 2024 Medium Term Planning process, material reputation risks associated with strategic and financial plans were also
assessed.
Legal risk
Barclays Bank UK Group remains committed to continuous improvements in managing legal risk effectively. During 2024, an annual review
and update was conducted of the Barclays Group wide LRMF to complement and accommodate changes to the CRMF (and described in
more detail on page 68), which includes a requirement for the Legal Function to proactively identify, communicate and provide legal advice
on applicable laws, rules and regulations.
Other improvements during 2024 included a review and update of the established supporting legal risk policies, standards and mandatory
training, reinforced by ongoing engagement with and education of the Barclays Group’s businesses and functions by Legal Function
colleagues. Legal risk tolerances and legal risk appetite have also been reviewed.
Tolerances adherence is assessed through key indicators, which are also used to evaluate the legal risk profile and are reviewed, at least
annually, through the relevant risk and control committees. Mandatory controls to manage legal risks are set out in the legal risk standards
and are subject to ongoing monitoring.

[PAGE 153]

Risk review
Supervision and regulation
Supervision of the Barclays Bank UK Group
The Barclays Bank UK Group’s operations are subject to a large number of rules and regulations applicable to the conduct of banking and
other financial services business. These apply to business operations, impact financial returns and include capital, leverage and liquidity
requirements, authorisation, registration and reporting requirements, restrictions on certain activities, and conduct of business regulations,
amongst other applicable regulatory requirements.
The day-to-day regulation and supervision of the Barclays Bank UK Group is divided between the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) (a
division of the Bank of England (BoE)) and the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). In addition, the Financial Policy Committee (FPC) of the
BoE has influence on the prudential requirements that may be imposed on the banking system through its powers of direction and
recommendation. Certain members of the Barclays Bank UK Group are also subject to regulatory initiatives undertaken by the UK Payment
Systems Regulator (PSR), as a participant in payment systems regulated by the PSR.
Barclays Bank UK PLC is an authorised person, with permission to accept deposits, amongst other things, and is subject to prudential
regulation and supervision by the PRA and to conduct regulation and supervision by the FCA. The Barclays Bank UK Group is subject to
prudential supervision on a group sub-consolidated basis and Barclays Bank UK PLC is subject to prudential supervision on an individual
basis. The Barclays Group as a whole is subject to prudential supervision by the PRA on a group consolidated basis. Barclays PLC has been
approved by the PRA as a financial holding company. Barclays Global Service Centre Private Limited and Barclays Execution Services
Limited are appointed representatives of Barclays Bank UK PLC and Tesco Stores Limited is an introducer appointed representative of
Barclays Bank UK PLC. These are arrangements under which the appointed representative is permitted to carry on certain regulated
activities in the UK which its principal takes responsibility for and oversees. Appointed representative arrangements must comply with
certain statutory and FCA rules, including on prescribed contractual terms and ongoing monitoring and supervision of the appointed
representative by the principal.
The PRA’s supervision of the Barclays Bank UK Group is conducted through a variety of regulatory tools, including the collection of
information by way of prudential returns or cross-firm reviews, reports obtained from skilled persons, information gathering, regular
supervisory visits to firms and regular continuous assessment meetings with the Barclays Bank UK Group’s management and relevant
stakeholders to discuss matters such as strategy, governance, financial resilience, operational resilience, risk management, and recovery
and resolution.
Further, the BoE, as the UK resolution authority, informs prudential requirements and sets requirements for the Group relating to resolution
preparedness.
The FCA’s supervision of the Barclays Bank UK Group is carried out through a combination of proactive engagement meetings, regular
supervisory visits, information gathering and regular meetings with Barclays Bank UK Group’s management and relevant stakeholders to
discuss matters such as customer strategy, fair treatment of customers, and financial crime controls, as well as cross-sectoral reviews
which analyse the different areas of the market and the risks that may lie ahead.
The FCA and the PRA also apply the Senior Managers and Certification Regime (the SMCR) which imposes a regulatory approval, individual
accountability and fitness and propriety framework in respect of senior individuals within relevant firms.
FCA supervision has focused on strategic transformation, financial crime controls, conduct risk and customer/client outcomes under the
Consumer Duty (which now applies to both open and closed products), firm culture and non-financial misconduct, fraud controls and
reimbursement, access to cash, the fair treatment of vulnerable customers and payment account access and closures.
PRA supervision has focused on strategic transformation, financial and operational resilience (including cyber risk), governance, credit risk
management, model risk management, data risk management, systems and controls, climate risk and resolvability, where resolvability is
reviewed in conjunction with the Resolution Directorate (a division of the BoE).
Both the PRA and the FCA apply standards that generally either anticipate or go beyond requirements established by global or EU
standards, whether in relation to capital, leverage and liquidity, resolvability and resolution or matters of conduct. The UK is in the process
of reviewing, repealing and, where relevant, replacing the EU legislation that was onshored into English law following the UK's departure
from the EU (assimilated law). The Financial Services and Markets Act 2023 (FSMA 2023) established a framework for the revocation of
assimilated law relating to financial services, with HM Treasury now repealing certain requirements set out in assimilated law. However, the
Government is not expected to revoke assimilated law relating to financial services unless the FCA and/or PRA have drafted and consulted
on rules in the relevant areas, where it is appropriate that the provisions are replaced. HM Treasury may specify parts of assimilated law
where the regulators are exempt from requirements to consult on new replacement rules, for example where they are restating assimilated
law revoked through FSMA 2023 in their rulebooks without material changes or where they are replacing revoked assimilated law with
material changes but the only material effect is to reduce a regulatory burden. Where changes also have other material effects, which may
include impacts on the regulators’ objectives, for example, the Government has indicated that it is appropriate to require the regulators to
consult. There is a significant volume of assimilated law for the UK Government to repeal and replace, so this process remains ongoing and
the regulatory landscape continues to develop. There is potential for an increase in regulatory implementation costs in the near term to
adapt systems and controls, although areas of divergence from assimilated law have been limited to date.
FSMA 2023 also introduced the framework for the ‘designated activities regime’ (DAR). The DAR framework allows HM Treasury to
designate certain activities which do not require regulatory authorisation to carry them out, but which are currently subject to FCA and PRA
supervision under assimilated law. The DAR will provide a mechanism for the UK regulators to make rules, supervise these activities and
exercise enforcement powers in these areas as the relevant provisions in assimilated law are repealed and replaced. The DAR will apply to
both authorised and unauthorised persons carrying on designated activities. Implementation costs may be incurred to adapt existing
processes as the DAR develops. In January 2025, the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Designated Activities) (Supervision and

[PAGE 154]

Risk review
Supervision and regulation
Enforcement) Regulations 2025 came into effect. These Regulations give the FCA supervisory and enforcement powers in respect of short
selling and consumer composite investment activities.
Prudential regulation
Certain Basel III standards were originally implemented in EU and UK law through the Capital Requirements Regulation (CRR) and the
Capital Requirements Directive IV (CRD IV), as amended by CRR II and CRD V. These standards were retained in the UK regulatory
framework via a series of onshoring instruments when the UK withdrew from the European Union. Under the assimilated law version of the
CRR (the UK CRR), the Barclays Group is subject to a binding Pillar 1 minimum capital requirement to satisfy a Common Equity Tier 1
(CET1) ratio of 4.5% of risk-weighted assets (RWAs). However, in practice the Barclays Group is required to and does hold capital
significantly in excess of this requirement. Additional capital requirements apply to the Barclays Group including Pillar 2A minimum
requirements and capital buffers, including the capital conservation buffer, the countercyclical capital buffer, the O-SII buffer and the G-SIB
buffer, as well as PRA buffer requirements (the Pillar 2B), as explained further below.
Global systemically important banks (G-SIBs), such as the Barclays Group, are subject to a number of additional prudential requirements,
including the requirement to hold additional loss-absorbing capacity and additional capital buffers above the level required by Basel III
standards. The level of the G-SIB buffer is set by the Financial Stability Board (FSB) according to a bank’s systemic importance and can
range from 1% to 3.5% of RWAs. The G-SIB buffer must be met with CET1 capital. In November 2024, the FSB published an update to its
list of G-SIBs, maintaining the 1.5% G-SIB buffer that applies to the Barclays Group.
The Barclays Group is subject to a ‘combined buffer requirement’ which includes (i) a capital conservation buffer of 2.5% of RWAs, and (ii)
a countercyclical capital buffer (CCyB). The CCyB is based on rates determined by the regulatory authorities in each jurisdiction in which
the Barclays Group maintains exposures. In the UK, the CCyB rate is set by the FPC and is currently 2%. Like the capital conservation buffer,
the CCyB must be met entirely with CET1 capital.
The PRA requires UK firms to hold additional capital to cover risks which the PRA assesses are not fully captured by the Pillar 1 capital
requirement. The PRA sets this additional capital requirement (Pillar 2A) at least annually, derived from each firm's individual capital
guidance. Under current PRA rules, the Pillar 2A requirement must be met with at least 56.25% CET1 capital, no more than 43.75%
additional Tier 1 (AT1) capital and no more than 25% tier 2 capital. In addition, the capital that firms use to meet their minimum
requirements (Pillar 1 and Pillar 2A) cannot be counted towards meeting the combined buffer requirement. In September 2024, the BoE
and PRA issued a consultation paper (CP9/24) on changes to the Pillar 2A capital framework, including retiring the refined methodology
for calculating Pillar 2A requirements in light of incoming proposals to implement Basel III standards (discussed further below) and
streamlining firm-specific capital communications.
The PRA may also impose a confidential 'PRA buffer' to cover risks over a forward-looking planning horizon, including with regard to firm-
specific stresses or management and governance weaknesses. The PRA buffer must be met separately to the combined buffer
requirement, and must be met fully with CET1 capital.
In addition, Barclays Bank UK Group is subject to prudential regulation by the PRA and is required to meet a minimum Common Equity Tier
1 (CET1) ratio of 12.9% comprising a 4.5% Pillar 1 requirement, a 2.5% capital conservation buffer, a 2% countercyclical buffer, a 1% O-SII
buffer and a 2.9% Pillar 2A add on.
As part of its approach to ring fencing, the FPC established a framework to apply a firm-specific systemic risk buffer (SRB) designed to
increase the capacity of ring-fenced bodies, such as Barclays Bank UK PLC, to absorb stress. The Other Systemically Important Institutions
Buffer (O-SII buffer) has since replaced the SRB. The O-SII buffer can be set between 0% and 3% and has to be met solely with CET1
capital. The O-SII buffer rate applicable to Barclays Bank UK PLC is currently set by the PRA at 1% of RWAs. Previously, total assets were
used as the metric to determine O-SII buffer rates but the FPC announced in 2022 that this would change to the UK leverage exposure
measure and that it would recalibrate the thresholds used to determine O-SII buffer rates to prevent an overall tightening or loosening of
the framework relative to its pre-Covid level. The PRA’s 2023 review of the O-SII buffer was based on end-2022 leverage exposure
measures and maintained the O-SII buffer rate applicable to Barclays Bank UK PLC at 1% (applicable from January 2025). For future
reviews, the average of firms’ quarter-end leverage exposure measure over the year will be used to determine O-SII buffer rates, rather than
the year-end value.
In December 2023, the PRA published its first collection of near-final policy proposals for implementing certain remaining Basel III
standards (Basel 3.1), including revised frameworks for market risk, operational risk and Credit Valuation Adjustment (CVA) risk. A second
policy statement was published by the PRA in September 2024, including near-final rules on credit risk and credit risk mitigation, the
implementation of an output floor (requiring reported RWAs calculated under standardised and modelled approaches to be a minimum of
72.5% of fully standardised calculations), and disclosure and reporting. The implementation date for these standards has been extended to
1 January 2027, with a transitional period to ensure full implementation by 1 January 2030.
The PRA is consulting on proposed amendments (CP14/24) to the large exposures (LE) framework to implement the remaining Basel large
exposure standards (removing the option for firms to use internal models to calculate exposure values to securities financing transactions
and introducing a mandatory substitution approach to calculate the effect of the use of credit risk mitigation techniques), as well as other
amendments including in respect of the LE limits to intragroup entities and removing the option for firms to exceed LE limits for trading
book exposures to third parties.
Additional minimum prudential requirements that apply to the Barclays Group to ensure that sufficient resources are maintained to provide
loss absorption in a resolution context are discussed in the sub-section titled ‘TLAC and MREL’ below.

[PAGE 155]

Risk review
Supervision and regulation
Stress testing
The Barclays Group and certain of its members, including Barclays Bank UK PLC, are subject to supervisory stress testing exercises pursuant
to the annual stress testing programme of the BoE. These exercises are designed to assess the resilience of banks to adverse economic or
financial developments and ensure that they have robust, forward-looking capital planning processes that account for the risks associated
with their business profile. Assessment by regulators is on both a quantitative and qualitative basis, the latter focusing on such elements as
data provision and stress testing capability, including model risk management and internal management processes and controls.
Recovery and Resolution
Stabilisation and resolution framework
The current UK framework for recovery and resolution was established by the Banking Act 2009, as amended.
The BoE, as the UK resolution authority, has the power to resolve a UK financial institution that is failing or likely to fail by exercising certain
stabilisation tools, including (i) bail-in: the cancellation, transfer or dilution of a relevant entity’s equity and write-down or conversion of the
claims of a relevant entity's unsecured creditors (including holders of capital instruments) and conversion of those claims into equity as
necessary to restore solvency; (ii) the transfer of all or part of a relevant entity’s' business to a private sector purchaser; and (iii) the transfer
of all or part of a relevant entity's business to a “bridge bank” controlled by the BoE. When exercising any of its stabilisation powers, the BoE
must generally provide that shareholders bear first losses, followed by creditors in accordance with the priority of their claims in insolvency.
In order to enable the exercise of its stabilisation powers, the BoE may impose a temporary stay on the rights of creditors to terminate,
accelerate or close out contracts, or override events of default or termination rights that might otherwise be invoked as a result of a
resolution action and modify contractual arrangements in certain circumstances (including a variation of the terms of any securities). HM
Treasury may also amend the law for the purpose of enabling it to use its powers under this regime effectively, potentially with
retrospective effect.
In addition and distinct from bail-in, the BoE has the power to permanently write-down, or convert into equity, tier 1 capital instruments,
tier 2 capital instruments and internal eligible liabilities at the point of non-viability of an institution pursuant to broader resolution powers
under the Banking Act.
The BoE’s preferred approach for the resolution of the Barclays Group is a bail-in strategy with a single point of entry at Barclays PLC. Under
such a strategy, Barclays PLC’s subsidiaries (including entities within the Barclays Bank UK Group) would remain operational while Barclays
PLC’s capital instruments and eligible liabilities would be written down or converted to equity in order to recapitalise the Barclays Group
and allow for the continued provision of services and operations throughout the resolution. The order in which the bail-in tool is applied
reflects the hierarchy of capital instruments under applicable UK legislation and rules, and otherwise respecting the hierarchy of claims in
an ordinary insolvency. Accordingly, the more subordinated the claim, the more likely losses will be suffered by owners of the claim.
The PRA has made rules that require authorised firms to draw up recovery plans and resolution packs. Recovery plans are designed to
outline credible actions that authorised firms could implement in the event of severe stress in order to restore their business to a stable and
sustainable condition. The submission of resolution packs was suspended by the PRA in 2018 until further notice and replaced by annual
resolution reporting. It continues to be suspended pending PRA assessment of areas of potential duplication between different reporting
expectations. The Barclays Group, however, is required to provide the PRA with a recovery plan biennially, although the Barclays Group
maintains and refreshes this on an annual basis.
Removal of potential impediments to an orderly resolution of a banking group or one or more of its subsidiaries is considered as part of the
BoE’s resolution planning for each firm, and the BoE can require firms to make significant changes in order to enhance their resolvability.
Under the BoE’s Resolvability Assessment Framework (RAF), firms are required to have in place capabilities covering three resolvability
outcomes: (i) adequate financial resources; (ii) being able to continue to do business through resolution and restructuring; and (iii) being
able to communicate and co-ordinate within the firm and with authorities. Barclays Group’s second self-assessment report on resolvability
under the RAF was submitted to the PRA/BoE in 2023 and the BoE’s assessment on the report was published in August 2024. The BoE’s
2024 assessment was more detailed than in previous years. The BoE identified that there are no shortcomings, deficiencies or substantive
impediments in the Group’s capabilities that could impede Barclays’ ability to execute the preferred resolution strategy. The BoE did note
that there were three areas for further enhancement relating to the provision of timely valuations, in respect of operational continuity in
resolution relating to the inclusion of resolution-resilient language in service contracts, and restructuring planning. The Barclays Group
continues to develop its capabilities in these areas and is engaging with the BoE on these areas identified for enhancements. In future, the
PRA/BoE could exercise its various powers to direct the Barclays Group to address any relevant issues. In January 2025, amendments to the
PRA rules were introduced which now require firms to make submissions under the relevant resolution rules on a ‘periodic’ basis rather
than the previous fixed two-year cycles (PS1/25). The BoE and PRA will require firms to submit their next resolution reports in 2026, with a
public disclosure to be made in 2027.
TLAC and MREL
The Barclays Group is under the supervision of the BoE, as the UK resolution authority, and is subject to a Minimum Requirement for Own
Funds and Eligible Liabilities (MREL), which includes a component reflecting the FSB’s standards on total loss absorbency capacity (TLAC).
Since 1 January 2022, G-SIBs with resolution entities incorporated in the UK have been required to meet an MREL equivalent to the higher
of: (i) two times the sum of their Pillar 1 and Pillar 2A requirements; or (ii) the higher of two times their leverage ratio requirement or 6.75%
of leverage exposures. The Barclays Group is also required to meet binding external MRELs in 2024 on the basis of a bail-in resolution

[PAGE 156]

Risk review
Supervision and regulation
strategy comprising a binding minimum capital requirement of 12.6% of RWAs, MREL of 25.2% of RWAs, and a loss-absorbing capacity
(MREL plus buffers) of 30.0% of RWAs. Internal MREL for material subsidiaries is subject to a scalar in the 75-90% range of the external
requirement that would apply to the subsidiary if it were a resolution entity. The starting point for the scalar is 90% for ring-fenced bank
sub-groups. In October 2024, the BoE launched a consultation on proposals to amend its statement of policy on its approach to setting
MREL (the MREL SoP). This forms part of the repeal and restatement (with modifications) process of assimilated law and the BoE does not
consider that its proposals would result in fundamental changes to the overall impact of its MREL policy.
Bank Levy and FSCS
The BRRD established a requirement for EU Member States to set up a pre-funded resolution financing arrangement with funding equal to
1% of covered deposits by 31 December 2024 to cover the costs of bank resolutions. The UK implemented this requirement by way of a tax
on the balance sheets of banks known as the ‘Bank Levy’, which remains in place.
In addition, the UK has a statutory compensation fund called the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS), which is funded by way
of annual levies on most authorised financial services firms including Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Structural reform
In the UK, the Financial Services (Banking Reform) Act 2013 put in place a framework for ring-fencing certain operations of large banks.
Ring-fencing requires, among other things, the separation of the retail and SME deposit-taking activities of UK banks from wholesale and
investment banking operations into a legally distinct, operationally separate and economically independent entity (i.e., a ‘ring-fenced
bank’), which is not permitted to undertake a range of activities. Under FSMA, the PRA is required to review its ring-fencing rules every five
years following the rules coming into force, with the first report having been published in January 2024. The PRA intends to consult in due
course on targeted reforms to its ring-fencing rules as a result of its review, although the overall conclusion was that most of those rules
are performing satisfactorily. Separately, HM Treasury has introduced legislative amendments to implement near-term reforms to the ring-
fencing regime which took effect in February 2025. These reforms have, amongst other measures, increased the core deposit threshold
(which determines whether a UK bank is subject to the ring-fencing regime) from £25bn to £35bn, exempted predominantly retail-
focussed banks from the ring-fencing regime by introducing a secondary threshold (referred to as the trading assets exemption), permitted
ring-fenced banks to establish branches and subsidiaries outside of the UK or the EEA (subject to PRA rules) and introduced a new four-
year transition period for UK non-ring-fenced banks to comply with the ring-fencing regime following mergers or acquisitions.
Market infrastructure regulation
In recent years, regulators as well as global-standard setting bodies such as the International Organisation of Securities Commissions
(IOSCO) have focused on improving transparency and reducing risk in markets, particularly risks related to over-the-counter (OTC)
derivative transactions. This focus has resulted in a variety of new regulations across the G20 countries and beyond that require or
encourage on-venue trading, clearing, posting of margin and disclosure of information related to many derivatives transactions.
Regulation of benchmarks
The UK Benchmarks Regulation applies to the administration, contribution and use of benchmarks within the UK. Financial institutions
within the UK, as applicable, are prohibited from using benchmarks unless their administrators are authorised, registered or otherwise
recognised in the UK. This prohibition will apply in respect of third country benchmark administrators from the end of 2030. The phase out
of LIBOR has now been completed, with the remaining synthetic LIBOR settings for holders of legacy contracts published for the last time
on 30 September 2024. Other global benchmarks are now being phased out through 2025. Global regulators in conjunction with the
industry have developed alternative benchmarks and risk-free rate fallback arrangements, including updates to existing, as well as new,
applicable legislation.
Other regulation
Consumer protection, digital access, culture, and diversity and inclusion
The FCA’s Consumer Duty is now in force for new and existing products or services that are open to sale or renewal, as well as closed
products and services. The duty sets higher expectations for the standard of care that firms provide to retail customers and impacts all
aspects of Barclays’ retail businesses, including every retail customer journey, product and service as well as Barclays Bank UK Group’s
relationships with partners, suppliers and third parties. This has resulted in significant implementation costs and there are also continued
higher ongoing costs for the industry as a result of extensive monitoring and evidential requirements. In setting out its strategy for
supervision of the retail banking industry in 2025, the FCA has reiterated the importance of the Consumer Duty as a continued priority for
the FCA and its expectations for firms to embed the Consumer Duty into their culture and purpose.
Other areas of strategic priority for the FCA’s supervision include the fair treatment of customers in financial difficulty, access for customers
to payment accounts and banking services (discussed further below), compliance with operational resilience rules, the continued
management of financial crime and fraud risks, and the role of banks in developing sustainable finance offerings and the importance of
ensuring that sustainability-related claims associated with products are clear, fair and not misleading.
Although the Barclays Bank UK Group never operated in the motor finance market in the UK, the wider financial industry may be impacted
by the October 2024 Court of Appeal judgments on commission arrangements in the motor finance industry, subject to the result of the
appeals of those judgments to the Supreme Court, and to the FCA’s ongoing review of the motor finance market. In December 2024, the
FCA announced an extension to the time motor finance firms have to handle complaints on lender commissions until after 4 December

[PAGE 157]

Risk review
Supervision and regulation
2025, following on from the Court of Appeal’s judgments in Johnson v FirstRand Bank, Wrench v FirstRand Bank and Hopcroft v Close
Brothers Ltd [2024] EWCA Civ 1282. The decisions in these cases could, subject to these appeals, impact the availability and terms of
financing, risk of future claims, and the likelihood of a FCA consumer redress scheme. There could also be wider market and industry
implications of the judgments and/or the appeals, which could adversely affect the Barclays Bank UK Group’s business, results of
operations, financial condition and prospects.
Barclays Bank UK Group’s regulators have enhanced their focus on the promotion of cultural values as a key area for banks. The UK
regulators have also begun focusing on diversity and inclusion in financial services firms, with the PRA and FCA having published a
consultation on the introduction of a new regulatory framework on diversity and inclusion in September 2023. The FCA has stated that it
expects to publish a policy statement on non-financial misconduct by early in 2025, with the FCA and PRA intending to publish policy
statements on the remaining diversity and inclusion proposals in Q2 2025.
The UK Government is expected to consult on abolishing the Certification Regime that applies under the SMCR and replace this with a
more proportionate approach, although details of these proposals are yet to be published.
FSMA 2023 introduced new provisions under which HM Treasury may designate current account providers that have a significant role in
the provision of UK cash access and empowered the FCA to make rules to ensure the reasonable provision of cash access services. In
September 2024, the FCA introduced new rules which require designated firms to consider the impact of a planned closure of a branch or
conversion of free-to-use ATMs (cash machines or cashpoints) on their customers’ everyday banking needs and the availability and
provision of alternatives. Barclays Bank UK PLC has been designated as a relevant current account provider and is therefore subject to the
rules.
Following increasing regulatory focus in 2023, the FCA published its findings on the reasons for payment account closures, in light of
concerns that customer accounts were being closed on the basis of customers’ political views. In September 2024, the FCA published a
follow-up report outlining further findings and expectations for firms, particularly in respect of the Consumer Duty. HM Treasury previously
announced plans to require banks to provide clear and tailored reasons for the closure of payment accounts as well as extending the notice
period of such closure to 90 days, although these reforms have not yet been implemented.
FSMA 2023 contains provisions mandating that the Payment Systems Regulator (PSR) require the reimbursement of authorised push
payment scams by payment service providers, including Barclays. This new reimbursement requirement took effect in October 2024. It has
imposed a maximum reimbursement limit of £85,000 with costs split 50:50 between the sending and receiving firms.
Data protection
Most jurisdictions where the Barclays Group operates have adopted or are considering comprehensive laws concerning data protection and
privacy. Regulations regarding data protection are increasing in number, as well as levels of enforcement, as manifested in increased
amounts of fines and the severity of other penalties. We expect that personal privacy and data protection will continue to receive attention
and focus from regulators, as well as public scrutiny and attention. The EU’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and the UK’s
General Data Protection Regulation (UK GDPR) provide a framework of rights and duties designed to safeguard personal data and apply to
the activities conducted from an establishment in the EU or the UK, respectively. The extraterritorial effect of the GDPR and the UK GDPR
means entities established outside the EU or the UK may fall respectively within the GDPR or the UK GDPR’s ambit when offering goods or
services to EU/UK based customers or clients or conducting behavioural monitoring of individuals in the EU/UK. The Data (Use and Access)
Bill was introduced to the UK Parliament in October 2024, which if enacted will bring some divergence between the EU GDPR and UK GDPR.
The data regime in China is likely to continue to evolve, governing the collection, processing and cross-border transfers of China-based
individuals' personal data and restricted data (e.g., macro/derived characteristics data which, if tampered with, divulged or destroyed, may
endanger China's economic operation, social stability, national security - among other things - having regard to the volume and granularity
of the data). In India, in preparation for the implementation of the Digital Personal Data Protection Act, which passed in 2023, the
Government has yet to issue finalised implementation rules for a robust mechanism of privacy protection and rights. Except under certain
exemptions, its scope would include the processing of personal data in India and would extend to the profiling of, and offering goods and
services to, India-based individuals outside of India. As the global data protection regulatory landscape develops, non-compliance with any
such requirements and rules could lead to regulatory fines and other penalties.
Cybersecurity and operational resilience
Regulators globally continue to focus on cybersecurity risk management, organisational operational resilience and overall soundness
across all financial services firms, with customer and market expectations of uninterrupted access to financial services remaining at an all-
time high.
The regulatory focus has been further heightened by the increasing number of high-profile ransomware and other supply chain attacks
seen across the industry in recent years and the growing reliance of financial services on Cloud and other third party service providers. This
is evidenced by the continuing introduction of new laws and regulatory frameworks directed at enhancing resilience of both firms and their
critical third party providers. The UK operational resilience framework introduced in March 2021 requires firms to be able to remain within
impact tolerances set for their important business services, in severe but plausible disruption scenarios such as a cyberattack, by no later
than 31 March 2025. In December 2024, the FCA and the PRA each published a consultation paper (CP24/28 and CP17/24 respectively)
on proposals for firms to report operational incidents and their material third party arrangements to enhance the operational resilience
framework. The FCA has stated that it expects to publish finalised rules in a policy statement in the second half of 2025, whilst the PRA has
stated that the proposed implementation date for its proposals is no earlier than the second half of 2026.

[PAGE 158]

Risk review
Supervision and regulation
FSMA 2023 introduced a new regime for designated critical third party providers (CTPs). In November 2024, the FCA, PRA, and BoE jointly
released the final rules and expectations for designated CTPs with the final rules having taken effect from 1 January 2025. Whilst the new
rules apply to designated CTPs themselves, there may be additional impact and costs for the Barclays Bank UK Group incurred in
connection with updating existing supplier arrangements to reflect the new CTP requirements where suppliers are designated as critical
CTPs.
The EU’s Network and Information Security (NIS) Directive, which aimed to improve the resilience of network and information systems in
the EU against cybersecurity risks, has been updated. The revised version, NIS2, applies from 18 October 2024 and imposes stricter
security, governance and incident reporting requirements. Failure to comply can lead to significant fines and senior manager liability
among other things. The extraterritorial effect of NIS2 means entities established outside the EU may fall within its ambit if providing
certain services in the EU. In the UK, the original NIS Directive was transposed into UK law and still applies but a new Cyber Security and
Resilience Bill is planned to be introduced to Parliament in 2025.
The existing and anticipated requirements specified in the UK, EU, and US for increased controls will serve to improve industry
standardisation and resilience capabilities, enhancing the Barclays Group’s ability to deliver services during periods of potential disruption.
Such measures are resulting in increased technology and compliance costs for the Barclays Bank UK Group.
Artificial Intelligence
A number of jurisdictions where the Barclays Bank UK Group operates have adopted or are considering adopting laws regulating artificial
intelligence (AI).
The EU’s Artificial Intelligence Act (EU AI Act), which entered into force on 1 August 2024, provides rights and duties designed to ensure
the safe and ethical deployment of AI. The EU AI Act requires organisations to ensure suitable levels of AI literacy within their workforce
and categorises AI systems based on their level of risk. It has a phased approach to compliance, with the first set of requirements
prohibiting certain uses of AI applying from 2 February 2025. It also establishes a rigorous compliance regime for high-risk AI applications
(which provisions apply from 2 August 2027). The extraterritorial effect of the of EU AI Act means entities established outside the EU fall
with the EU AI Act’s ambit if they provide or deploy AI in the EU or the output of their AI is used in the EU.
Regulatory initiatives on ESG
In the UK, the FCA published final rules on the UK Sustainability Disclosure Requirements regime in November 2023 which set out new
requirements to prepare sustainability-related product and entity level disclosures for certain firms, as well as a new sustainable investment
labelling regime and anti-greenwashing rule applicable to all authorised firms. The new anti-greenwashing rule (and associated guidance)
came into force on 31 May 2024 and the labelling regime was made available from 31 July 2024, whilst the disclosure regime continues to
be implemented on a phased basis from late 2024 until the end of 2026. The FCA also published a consultation in April 2024 on extending
the SDR and investment labels regime to portfolio management and expects to publish a Policy Statement and further information about
implementation in Q2 2025.
The Digital Markets, Competition and Consumers Act 2024 (DMCCA) received Royal Assent in May 2024, introducing major updates to UK
competition and consumer protection laws. These reforms included the expansion of the powers held by the Competition and Markets
Authority (the ‘CMA’), in relation to digital markets, merger control and antitrust rules, as well as consumer law. Expected to commence in
spring 2025, the CMA will be able to directly impose significant fines of up to 10% of global turnover for breaches of consumer protection
law. As one of the regulators entrusted with consumer protection in the UK, the CMA has already been actively focusing on misleading
environmental claims, with recent investigations and regulatory action taken in relation to the UK fashion industry for example. The CMA
has the ability to investigate potential breaches of consumer protection laws by financial services firms also, and the FCA will be able to
make recommendations to the CMA to exercise its powers under the DMCCA. The DMCCA also simplifies and enhances the process by
which the regulators may obtain enforcement orders and undertakings for breaches of consumer law. The Advertising Standards Authority
is responsible for regulating the content of advertisements, sales promotions and direct marketing in the UK, and has also been focusing on
greenwashing, including investigating and making rulings against advertisements from financial services firms due to greenwashing.
In its election manifesto, the Government stated that it would mandate UK regulated financial institutions and FTSE 100 companies to
develop and implement credible transition plans that align with the 1.5°C goal of the Paris Agreement. Consequently, it intends to consult
in H1 2025 on how best to take that commitment forward. The UK’s Transition Plan Taskforce (TPT) concluded its work on a disclosure
framework for transition plans in October 2024, with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) Foundation now assuming
responsibility for the TPT’s disclosure materials. It is widely expected that the work of the TPT will likely form the basis of transition plan
disclosure requirements mandated by the Government and UK regulators.
In September 2024, the Government published information on its framework to create UK Sustainability Reporting Standards (UK SRS).
Subject to an affirmative endorsement decision, and following a consultation process, the Government would create the first two UK
Sustainability Reporting Standards, based on those of the International Sustainability Standards Board (ISSB) (IFRS S1 on general
requirements for disclosure of sustainability related financial information and IFRS S2 on climate-related disclosures) and these standards
will form part of a wider Sustainability Disclosure Reporting (SDR) framework led by HM Treasury. The Government aims to make its
endorsement decisions on the first two UK Sustainability Reporting Standards (SRS) in Q1 2025. As there is some overlap between IFRS S2
and the TPT Disclosure Framework, the FCA plans, through its consultation on implementing UK-endorsed ISSB standards, to consult on
strengthening its expectations for transition plan disclosures with reference to the TPT Disclosure Framework, as noted above. In addition,
TCFD-aligned reporting requirements apply to UK publicly quoted companies, large private companies and LLPs (in addition to existing
TCFD-related reporting requirements under the UK Listing Rules).

[PAGE 159]

Risk review
Supervision and regulation
The UK Government published a consultation in November 2024 seeking views on whether a UK Green Taxonomy would be a useful tool to
support investment activities aligned with sustainability ambitions and as a mitigant to greenwashing activity.
Recent EU developments in ESG disclosure initiatives will also impact UK companies which fall within the scope of applicable regimes. The
EU Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD) introduces significant sustainability related reporting obligations covering a wide
range of topics beyond climate change for various entities, including EU banks and certain non-EU companies and banks (by virtue of
having EU listings or significant business in the EU), with reporting to commence on a phased basis from the financial year 2024. The
breadth of the European Sustainability Reporting Standards and the amount of data to be collected are significant for financial institutions,
as companies to which finance has been provided are considered to be within scope of their value chain, and thus their reporting.
In July 2024, the Directive on Corporate Sustainability Due Diligence (CSDDD) entered into force, and will require certain EU and non-EU
entities to carry out due diligence in relation to their own operations and ‘chain of activities’, in order to identify and prevent, bring to an
end or mitigate the actual and potential adverse impact of their own operations, the operations of their subsidiaries or of their business
partners on human rights and the environment. For regulated financial undertakings, the Directive covers own operations and the
upstream value chain but not the activities of their downstream business partners that receive their financial services and products.
However, the Directive foresees that the EU Commission should submit a report to the EU Parliament and the Council on the necessity to
lay down additional sustainability due diligence requirements tailored to regulated financial undertakings by July 2026. Moreover, entities in
scope of the Directive will also be required to adopt and put into effect a climate change mitigation transition plan. These obligations will
apply after transposition into national laws in each EU Member State on a phased basis from July 2027. The EU is currently considering
proposals to review some parts of CSDDD and other sustainability related legislation, but any proposed amendments remain to be seen.
Sanctions and financial crime
The UK Bribery Act 2010 introduced a new form of corporate criminal liability focused broadly on a company’s failure to prevent bribery on
its behalf. The Criminal Finances Act 2017 introduced new corporate criminal offences of failing to prevent the facilitation of UK and
overseas tax evasion. In 2023, the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act 2023 became law. This creates a new offence, in force
from 1 September 2025, of failing to prevent a person associated with the Barclays Bank UK Group from committing fraud for the benefit of
the Barclays Bank UK Group. In addition, this legislation also extends the concept of corporate criminal liability. These pieces of legislation
have broad application and in certain circumstances may have extraterritorial impact on entities, persons or activities located outside the
UK.
The UK Bribery Act requires the Barclays Bank UK Group to have adequate procedures to prevent bribery which, due to the extraterritorial
nature of the Act, makes this both complex and costly. Additionally, the Criminal Finances Act requires the Barclays Bank UK Group to have
reasonable procedures in place to prevent the criminal facilitation of tax evasion by persons acting for, or on behalf of, any entity in the
Barclays Bank UK Group. The Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act similarly requires the Barclays Bank UK Group to have
reasonable procedures in place to prevent a person associated with the Barclays Bank UK Group from committing fraud.
The Sanctions and Anti-Money Laundering Act 2018 (the Sanctions Act) became law in the UK in 2018. Following the UK’s withdrawal
from the EU, the Sanctions Act allowed for the adoption of an autonomous UK sanctions regime which came into force in 2021, as well as a
more flexible licensing regime post-Brexit. This regime applies within the UK and in relation to the conduct of all UK persons wherever they
are in the world; it also applies to overseas branches of UK companies.
In some cases, US state and federal regulations addressing sanctions, money laundering and other financial crimes may impact entities,
persons or activities located or undertaken outside the US, including Barclays PLC and its subsidiaries. US government authorities have
aggressively enforced these laws, and expanded authorities threatening the imposition of sanctions, against financial institutions in recent
years.
As a result of the conflict in Ukraine, there has been an increased regulatory focus on sanctions compliance in various jurisdictions,
including the US, UK and EU.
Failure of a financial institution to ensure compliance with such laws could have serious legal, financial and reputational consequences for
the institution.

[PAGE 160]

Financial statements
Contents
Detailed analysis of our statutory accounts, independently audited and providing in-depth disclosure on the financial performance of
the Barclays Bank UK Group.
Page Note
Consolidated financial statements
▪ Independent Auditor’s report 160 n/a
▪ Consolidated income statement 170 n/a
▪ Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 171 n/a
▪ Consolidated balance sheet 172 n/a
▪ Consolidated statement of changes in equity 173 n/a
▪ Consolidated cash flow statement 174 n/a
▪ Parent company accounts 175 n/a
Notes to the financial statements
▪ Material accounting policies 178 1
Financial performance and ▪ Segmental reporting 183 2
returns ▪ Net interest income 184 3
▪ Net fee and commission income 185 4
▪ Net trading income / (expense) 186 5
▪ Net investment income / (expense) 186 6
▪ Operating expenses 187 7
▪ Credit impairment charges 188 8
▪ Tax 193 9
▪ Dividends on ordinary shares 196 10
Assets and liabilities held at fair ▪ Trading portfolio 197 11
value ▪ Financial assets at fair value through the income statement 197 12
▪ Derivative financial instruments 198 13
▪ Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 205 14
▪ Financial liabilities designated at fair value 206 15
▪ Fair value of financial instruments 206 16
▪ Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities 211 17
Assets at amortised cost and ▪ Property, plant and equipment 214 18
other investments ▪ Leases 215 19
• Goodwill and intangible assets 217 20
Accruals, provisions, contingent ▪ Other liabilities 222 21
liabilities and legal proceedings ▪ Provisions 222 22
▪ Contingent liabilities and commitments 224 23
▪ Legal, competition and regulatory matters 224 24
Capital instruments, equity and ▪ Subordinated liabilities 226 25
reserves ▪ Ordinary shares, share premium and other equity 227 26
▪ Reserves 228 27
Employee benefits ▪ Staff costs 229 28
▪ Share-based payments 230 29
Scope of consolidation ▪ Structured entities 232 30
▪ Securitisations 233 31
▪ Assets pledged, collateral received and assets transferred 235 32
Other disclosure matters ▪ Related party transactions and Directors’ remuneration 237 33
▪ Auditor’s remuneration 240 34
▪ Business acquisitions 240 35
▪ Barclays Bank UK PLC (the parent company) 241 36
▪ Related undertakings 242 37

[PAGE 161]

Independent Auditor’s report
Independent Auditor’s report to the members of Barclays Bank UK PLC
1 Our opinion is unmodified
We have audited the financial statements of Barclays Bank UK Group (“the Group”) for the year ended 31 December 2024 which comprise
the consolidated and Barclays Bank UK PLC (“the Parent Company”) balance sheets as at 31 December 2024, the consolidated income
statement and statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated and Parent Company statements of changes in equity and cash flow
statements for the year then ended and the related notes, including the accounting policies in Note 1.
In our opinion:
• the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs as at 31
December 2024 and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended;
• the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK-adopted international accounting standards;
• the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK-adopted international accounting
standards and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Basis for opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (“ISAs (UK)”) and applicable law. Our responsibilities
are described below. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion. Our audit
opinion is consistent with our report to the board audit committee.
We were first appointed as auditor by the directors on 21 March 2018 for the audit of the financial year ended 31 December 2017. The
period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the eight financial years ended 31 December 2024. We have fulfilled our ethical
responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical
Standard as applied to public interest entities. No non-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
2 Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements
and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement (whether or not due to fraud) identified by us, including those
which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy; the allocation of resources in the audit; and directing the efforts of the
engagement team. We summarise below the key audit matters, including a new key audit matter over the Tesco Bank acquisition, in
decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those
matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our
audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we
do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.

[PAGE 162]

Independent Auditor’s report
Independent Auditor’s report to the members of Barclays Bank UK PLC
Key audit matter The risk Our response
Impairment allowances Subjective estimate: Our procedures to address the risk included:
on loans and advances at
amortised cost, including Risk vs 2023: Risk assessment: We performed granular and detailed
off-balance sheet risk assessment procedures over the entirety of the loan
elements The estimation of expected credit losses and advances at amortised cost including off-balance
(“ECL”) on financial instruments, involves sheet elements of the allowance within the Group’s
31 December 2024 significant judgement and estimates. The key financial statements. As part of these risk assessment
£1,626m, 31 December areas where we identified greater levels of procedures, we identified the portfolios associated with
2023 £1,686m management judgement and therefore a risk of material misstatement including those arising
increased levels of audit focus in the Group’s from significant judgements over the estimation of ECL
See page 188 for the estimation of ECL are: either due to inputs, methods or assumptions.
accounting policy for the
impairment of financial • Model estimations – Inherently Control testing: We performed end to end process
assets under IFRS9, page judgemental modelling techniques and walkthroughs to identify the key systems, applications
77 for the credit risk assumptions are used to estimate ECL and controls used in the ECL processes. We tested the
disclosures, and page 188 which involves either determining relevant manual, general IT and application controls
for the financial disclosure Probability of Default (“PD”), Loss Given over key systems used in the ECL process.
Note 8; Credit impairment Default (“LGD”), and Exposure at Default Key aspects of our controls testing involved evaluating
charges (“EAD”) or an appropriate proxy. ECL may the design and implementation and testing the
be inappropriate if certain models or operating effectiveness of the key controls over the:
underlying assumptions do not accurately
predict defaults or recoveries over time, • completeness and accuracy of the key inputs into
become out of line with wider industry the IFRS 9 impairment models;
experience, or fail to reflect the credit risk
• application of the staging criteria;
of financial assets. As a result, certain IFRS
9 models and model assumptions are the • model validation, implementation and monitoring;
key drivers of complexity and uncertainty • completeness, authorisation and calculation of post
in the Group’s calculation of the ECL model adjustments and management overlays;
estimate.
• selection and implementation of economic
variables and the controls over the economic
▪ Economic scenarios – IFRS 9 requires the
scenario selection and probabilities
Group to measure ECL on an unbiased
forward-looking basis reflecting a range of
Our credit risk modelling expertise: We involved our
future economic conditions. Significant
own credit risk modellers who assisted in the following:
management judgement is applied in
determining the forward-looking economic • evaluating the Group’s impairment methodologies
scenarios used as an input to calculate ECL, for compliance with IFRS 9;
the associated scenario probability • assessing the appropriateness of certain
weightings, and the key economic variables assumptions by inspecting and evaluating
that drive the scenarios. There is also a management’s documented methodology for how
high level of complexity of models used to the assumption is determined;
derive the probability weightings.
• inspecting model code for the calculation of certain
components of the ECL model to assess its
• Qualitative adjustments – Adjustments to
consistency with the Group’s model methodology;
the model-driven ECL results are raised by
• evaluating whether model changes (including
management to address known
updated model code), for a selection of models
impairment model limitations, emerging
which were changed or updated during the year
trends, or risks not captured by models.
were appropriate by assessing the updated model
They represent approximately 14.9% of the
methodology against the applicable accounting
ECL. These adjustments are inherently
standard;
uncertain and significant and subjective
management judgement is involved in • reperforming the calculation of certain adjustments
identifying and estimating certain post to assess consistency with the qualitative
model adjustments (“PMA’s”) and adjustment methodologies;
management overlays. As such, the • assessing and reperforming, for a selection of
identification and estimation of certain models, the reasonableness of the model
qualitative adjustment represent a predictions by comparing them against actual
significant risk of error and fraud. results and evaluating the resulting differences;
• evaluating the model output for a selection of
The effect of these matters is that, as part of
models by inspecting the corresponding model
our risk assessment, we determined that the
functionality and independently implementing the
impairment of loans and advances to
model by rebuilding the model code and comparing
customers including off-balance sheet
our independent output with management’s
elements of the allowance has a high degree of
output; and
estimation uncertainty, with a potential range
of reasonable outcomes greater than our • independently recalculating a selection of model
materiality for the financial statements as a assumptions using more recent data for certain
whole, and possibly many times that amount. portfolios. This is used to develop a range for ECL
The credit risk sections of the financial which is compared to management’s point
statements (pages 77-133) disclose the estimate.
sensitivities estimated by the Group.

[PAGE 163]

Independent Auditor’s report
Independent Auditor’s report to the members of Barclays Bank UK PLC
Key audit matter The risk Our response
Disclosure quality Our economics expertise: We involved our own
The disclosures regarding the Group’s economic specialists who assisted us in:
application of IFRS 9 are key to explaining the • assessing the reasonableness of the Group’s
key judgements and material inputs to the IFRS methodology and models for determining the
9 ECL results. economic scenarios used and the probability
weightings applied to them;
• assessing key economic variables which included
comparing samples of economic variables to
external sources; and assessing the overall
reasonableness of the economic forecasts by
comparing the Group’s forecasts to our own
modelled forecasts.
Other test of details: Key aspects of our testing in
addition to those set out above involved:
• sample testing over key inputs into the ECL
calculations; and
• selecting a sample of post model adjustments,
considering the size and complexity of
management overlays, to assess the
reasonableness of the adjustments by challenging
key assumptions, inspecting the calculation
methodology and tracing a sample of the data used
back to source data; and
• assessing the completeness of post model
adjustments identified;
Assessing transparency: We assessed whether the
disclosures appropriately disclose and address the
uncertainty which exists when determining the ECL. In
addition, we assessed whether the disclosure of the key
judgements and assumptions was sufficiently clear.
Our results: The results of our testing were satisfactory
and we considered the ECL charge, Impairment
allowance and the related disclosures to be acceptable
(2023 result: acceptable).

[PAGE 164]

Independent Auditor’s report
Independent Auditor’s report to the members of Barclays Bank UK PLC
Key audit matter The risk Our response
Valuation of financial Subjective valuation Our procedures to address the risk included:
instruments held at fair
Risk assessment: We performed granular and detailed
value Risk vs 2023: ◄►
risk assessment procedures throughout the audit period
over the ESHLA balances within the Group and Parent
31 December 2024 The fair value of the Group and Parent
company’s financial statements. As part of these risk
£1,542m, 31 December company’s financial instruments is determined
assessment procedures, we identified the associated
2023 £1,927m through the application of valuation techniques
valuation inputs that have a risk of material
which can involve the exercise of significant
misstatement including those arising from significant
Refer to page 179 judgement by management in relation to the
judgements over valuation due to unobservable inputs.
(accounting policy for choice of the valuation models, pricing inputs
financial assets and and post-model pricing adjustments, including Controls testing: We attended management’s
liabilities) and page 206 fair value adjustments (FVAs). Valuation Committee throughout the year and observed
(financial disclosure Note discussions and challenge over valuation themes.
16 Fair value of financial Where significant pricing inputs are
instruments) unobservable, management has limited reliable We performed end to end process walkthroughs to
and relevant market data available in identify the key systems, applications and controls used
determining the fair value and hence in the valuations processes. We tested the design,
estimation uncertainty can be high. These implementation and operating effectiveness of key
financial instruments are classified as level 3, controls relating to this portfolio.
with management having controls in place over
Key aspects of our controls testing involved evaluating
the boundary between level 2 and 3 positions.
the design and testing the operating effectiveness of the
Our significant audit risk is therefore primarily
key controls over:
over significant Level 3 portfolios, which is the
Education, Social Housing and Local Authority • Independent price verification (IPV), performed by a
(“ESHLA”) loan portfolio. As at 31 December control function of key market pricing inputs,
2024 the Group and Parent company have including completeness of positions and valuation
outstanding ESHLA loans which require inputs subject to the IPV process;
significant judgement in the valuation due to • FVAs, including exit adjustments (to mark the
the long dated nature of the portfolio, the lack portfolio to bid or offer prices) and model
of secondary market in the relevant loans and shortcoming reserves to address model limitations;
unobservable loan spreads.
• The validation, completeness, implementation and
usage of valuation models. This included controls
At 31 December 2024, Level 3 instruments
over assessment of model limitations and
£1,542m represented 5.1% of the Group’s and
assumptions; and
Parent company’s financial assets carried at fair
value. • The assessment of the observability of a product
and their unobservable inputs.
Disclosure quality
Our valuations expertise: We involved our own
The disclosures are key to explaining the
valuations specialists in the following:
valuation techniques, key judgements,
assumptions and material inputs. • Independently re-pricing a selection of fair value
financial instruments and challenging management
on the valuations where they were outside our
tolerance; and
• challenging the appropriateness of significant
models and methodologies used in calculating fair
values, risk exposures and in calculating FVAs,
including comparison to industry practice.
Inspection of movements: We inspected trading
revenue arising on level 3 positions to assess whether
material gains or losses generated were in line with the
accounting standards.
Historical comparison: We performed a retrospective
review by inspecting significant gains and losses on a
selection of trade exits and restructurings throughout
the audit period and evaluated whether those data
points indicated elements of fair value not incorporated
in the current valuation methodologies. We also
inspected movements in unobservable inputs
throughout the period to challenge whether any gain or
loss generated was appropriate.
Assessing transparency: We assessed the adequacy of
the Group and Parent company’s financial statements
disclosures in the context of the relevant accounting
standards.
Our results: The results of our testing were satisfactory
and we considered the fair value of level 3 financial
assets recognised to be acceptable (2022 result:
acceptable).

[PAGE 165]

Independent Auditor’s report
Independent Auditor’s report to the members of Barclays Bank UK PLC
Key audit matter The risk Our response
User access management Control performance Our procedures to address the risk included:
Risk vs 2023: ◄► Controls testing: We tested the design, implementation
and operating effectiveness of automated controls that
The Group and Parent company’s IT operations support material balances in the financial statements.
support a wide range of products and services, We also tested the design and operating effectiveness
resulting in a large and complex IT of the relevant preventative and detective general IT
infrastructure relevant to the financial reporting controls over user access management including:
processes and related internal controls. • Authorising access rights for new joiners;
• Timely removal of user access rights;
User access management controls are an
integral part of the IT environment to ensure • Logging and monitoring of user activities;
both system access and changes made to • Privileged user access management and
systems and data are authorised and monitoring;
appropriate. Our audit approach relies on the
• Developer access to transaction and balance
effectiveness of IT access management
information;
controls. Our audit procedures identified
deficiencies in certain IT access controls for • Segregation of duties;
systems relevant to financial reporting. More • Re-certification of user access rights; and
specifically, previously identified control
• Access to make changes to systems and data is
deficiencies remain open around monitoring of
restricted.
activities performed by privileged users on
infrastructure components. Management has
We performed procedures to assess whether additional
an ongoing programme to remediate the
detective compensating controls operate at the same
deficiencies. Since these deficiencies were open
level of precision to support our assessed risk of
during the year, we performed additional
unauthorised activities and we tested management’s
procedures to respond to the risk of
detective controls.
unauthorised changes to automated controls
over financial reporting, such as an assessment
Our results: Based on the risk identified and our
of compensating controls implemented by
procedures performed, our testing did not identify
management during the audited period.
weaknesses in the design and operation of user access
management controls that would have required us to
significantly expand the extent of our planned detailed
testing.

[PAGE 166]

Independent Auditor’s report
Independent Auditor’s report to the members of Barclays Bank UK PLC
3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit
Materiality for the Group and Parent Company financial statements as a whole was set at £151m (2023: £136m) and £150m (2023:
£135m) respectively, determined with reference to a benchmark of profit before tax from continuing operations, of which it represents
4.7% (2023: 4.9%) for the Group and 4.6% (2023: 4.9%) for the Parent Company, normalised downwards by £348m for both the Group
and Parent Company, to adjust for the one off gain on the acquisition of the Tesco Bank business (£558m) less the associated ECL impact
(£209m), in the year as the transaction is considered to be outside the normal course of operations. In the prior year materiality was
determined by normalising the benchmark upwards by £124m and £297m for the Group and Parent Company respectively to adjust for
the loss incurred on the disposal of the wealth management business in the year.
In line with our audit methodology, our procedures on individual account balances and disclosures were performed to a lower threshold,
performance materiality, so as to reduce to an acceptable level the risk that individually immaterial misstatements in individual account
balances add up to a material amount across the financial statements as a whole.
Performance materiality for the Group and Parent Company was set at 75% (2023: 75%) of materiality for the financial statements as a
whole, which equates to £113m (2023: £102m) for the Group and £112.5m (2023: £101m) for the Parent Company. We applied this
percentage in our determination of performance materiality because we did not identify any factors indicating an elevated level of risk.
We agreed to report to the board audit committee any correct or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding £7.5m (2023: £6.75m),
in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Normalised Group profit before tax
£3,002m* (2023: £2795m)**
£151m
Whole financial statements
materiality (2023: £136m)
£113m
Whole financial statements
performance materiality (2023:
£102m)
£7.5m
Misstatements reported to the
Audit Committee (2023: £6m)
*adjusted to deduct the gain on acquisition of Tesco Bank, as well as the associated ECL impact in the period which does not represent
normal, continuing operations
** adjusted to add back the loss on disposal of the wealth management business in the prior year period
Scope – general
We were able to rely upon the Group’s internal control over financial reporting for most areas of our audit, where our controls testing
supported this approach, which enabled us to reduce the scope of our substantive audit work. This did not include our testing over the
Tesco Bank acquisition and year end position, in which we took a primarily substantive approach given the one off nature of the
transaction and limited time between the transaction and year end.
This year, we applied the revised group auditing standard in our audit of the consolidated financial statements, The revised standard
changes how an auditor approaches the identification of components, and how the audit procedures are planned and executed across
components.
In particular, the definition of a component has changed, shifting the focus from how the entity prepares financial information,to how we,
as the group auditor, plan to perform audit procedures to address group risks of material misstatement (’RMMs’).

[PAGE 167]

Independent Auditor’s report
Independent Auditor’s report to the members of Barclays Bank UK PLC
In total, we identified two components. Of those, we identified one quantitatively significant component, the Parent, which contained the
largest percentages of both total revenue and total assets of the Group, for which we performed audit procedures. We applied a
component performance materiality of £112.5m to the audit of the Parent company as a component of the group.
The Group has certain centralised processes in India, the outputs of which are also included in the aggregated set of financial information.
These services are subject to specified audit procedures, predominantly the testing of transaction processing and controls. We evaluated
the work which the participating auditor performed in these areas. We communicated with the participating audit team throughout the
audit by holding regular meetings and visiting their office.
4 Going concern
The directors have prepared the financial statements on the going concern basis as they do not intend to liquidate the Group or the
Company or to cease their operations, and as they have concluded that the Group’s and the Company’s financial position means that this is
realistic. They have also concluded that there are no material uncertainties that could have cast significant doubt over their ability to
continue as a going concern for at least a year from the date of approval of the financial statements (“the going concern period”).
We used our knowledge of the Group and Parent Company, the financial services industry, and the general economic environment to
identify the inherent risks to the business model and analysed how those risks might affect the Group’s and Parent Company’s financial
resources or ability to continue operations over the going concern period. The risks that management considered most likely to adversely
affect the Group’s and Parent Company’s available financial resources over this period and which we challenged were:
• the availability of funding and liquidity in the event of a market wide stress scenario; and
• the impact on regulatory capital requirements in the event of an economic slowdown.
We considered whether these risks could plausibly affect the availability of financial resources in the going concern period by comparing
severe, but plausible downside scenarios that could arise from these risks individually and collectively against the level of available financial
resources indicated by the Group’s financial forecasts.
Our procedures also included an assessment of whether the going concern disclosure in note 01 to the financial statements gives a
complete and accurate description of the Directors’ assessment of going concern.
Our conclusions based on this work:
• we consider that the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is
appropriate;
• we have not identified, and concur with the directors’ assessment that there is not, a material uncertainty related to events or
conditions that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the Group’s or Company's ability to continue as a going
concern for the going concern period; and
• we found the going concern disclosure in note 01 to be acceptable.
However, as we cannot predict all future events or conditions and as subsequent events may result in outcomes that are inconsistent with
judgements that were reasonable at the time they were made, the above conclusions are not a guarantee that the Group or the Company
will continue in operation.
5 Fraud and breaches of laws and regulations – ability to detect
Identifying and responding to risks of material misstatement due to fraud
To identify risks of material misstatement due to fraud (“fraud risks”) we assessed events or conditions that could indicate an incentive or
pressure to commit fraud or provide an opportunity to commit fraud. In this risk assessment we considered the following:
• Our meetings throughout the year with the Group Head of Risk, Head of Compliance and Head of Legal and reviews of Barclays’
internal ethics and compliance reporting summaries, including those concerning investigations and regulatory correspondence;
• Enquiries of operational managers, internal audit, and the board audit committee, and inspection of policy documentation as to
the Group’s and Parent Company’s policies and procedures relating to:
◦ detecting and responding to the risks of fraud and whether they have knowledge of any actual, suspected or alleged
fraud; and
◦ the internal controls established to mitigate risks related to fraud, including the appropriateness and impact of
changes made to these controls to facilitate remote/hybrid working;
• The Group’s and Parent Company’s remuneration policies, key drivers for remuneration and bonus levels;

[PAGE 168]

Independent Auditor’s report
Independent Auditor’s report to the members of Barclays Bank UK PLC
• The full population of all journal entries to analyse using KPMG automated data analytics routine to identify any journals with
high risk of fraud using a predefined high risk criteria.
• Considered the impact of the pressure to meet the target set out in the strategic plan. FY24 marked the first year of execution
against the three-year strategic plan announced by Barclays plc group in their February 2024 Investor Update; and
• Discussions among the engagement team regarding how and where fraud might occur in the financial statements and any
potential indicators of fraud. The engagement team includes audit partners and staff who have extensive experience of working
with banks, and this experience was relevant to the discussion about where fraud risks may arise. The discussions also involved
our own forensic specialists to assist us in identifying fraud risks based on discussions of the circumstances of the Group and
Parent Company, including consideration of fraudulent schemes that had arisen in similar sectors and industries. The forensic
specialists participated in the initial fraud risk assessment discussion and were consulted throughout the audit where further
guidance was deemed necessary.
We communicated identified fraud risks throughout the audit team and remained alert to any indications of fraud throughout the audit.
As required by auditing standards and taking into account our overall knowledge of the control environment, we perform procedures to
address the risk of management override of controls and the risk of fraudulent revenue recognition, which we isolate to certain
assumptions used in the calculation of the Effective Interest Rate (EIR) on the mortgages portfolio, and the risk that management may be in
a position to make inappropriate accounting entries and the risk of bias in accounting estimates and judgments.
We also identified a fraud risk related to qualitative adjustments to the model-driven ECL results given these adjustments are inherently
uncertain and significant management judgement is involved in estimating these amounts, the valuation of level 3 ESHLA loans held at fair
value given there is significant management judgement around the valuation. and the valuation of the fair value of net assets acquired
through the Tesco Bank acquisition. Further detail in respect of these is set out in section 2 of this report.
Our audit procedures included evaluating the design and implementation and operating effectiveness of relevant internal controls,
assessing significant accounting estimates for bias as well as substantive procedures to address the fraud risks.
These procedures also included identifying journal entries to test based on risk criteria and comparing the identified entries to supporting
documentation.
Incorporating unpredictability into our audit: A requirement of the auditing standards is that we undertake procedures which are
deliberately unexpected and could not have reasonably been predicted by Barclays’ management. As an example, we update our criteria for
selecting journals with a higher risk of management override for testing each year so that the selection criteria do not become predictable.
Identifying and responding to risks of material misstatement due to non-compliance with laws and regulations
We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably be expected to have a material effect on the financial statements. For this
risk assessment, matters considered include the following:
• our general commercial and sector experience;
• discussion with the directors and other management (as required by auditing standards);
• inspection of the Group’s and Parent Company’s regulatory and legal correspondence;
• inspection of the policies and procedures regarding compliance with laws and regulations;
• relevant discussions with the Group’s and Parent Company’s external legal counsel;
• relevant discussions with the Group’s and Parent Company’s key regulatory supervisors including the Prudential Regulation
Authority and Financial Conduct Authority; and
• the Group’s and Parent Company’s own assessment of the risks of non-compliance with laws and regulations and the internal
controls established to mitigate these.
As the Group and Parent Company operates in a highly regulated environment, our assessment of risks of material misstatement also
considered the control environment, including the Group and Parent Company’s higher level procedures for complying with regulatory
requirements. Our assessment included inspection of key frameworks, policies and standards in place, understanding and evaluating the
role of the compliance function in establishing these and monitoring compliance and testing of related controls around whistleblowing and
complaints.
We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our team and remained alert to any indications of non-compliance
throughout the audit.
The potential effect of these laws and regulations on the financial statements varies considerably.
Firstly, the Group and Parent Company is subject to laws and regulations that directly impact the financial statements including:
• financial reporting legislation (including related companies’ legislation);
• distributable profits legislation; and
• taxation legislation (direct and indirect).

[PAGE 169]

Independent Auditor’s report
Independent Auditor’s report to the members of Barclays Bank UK PLC
We assessed the extent of compliance with these laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the related financial statement items.
Secondly, the Group and Parent Company is subject to many other laws and regulations where the consequences of non-compliance could
have a material effect on amounts or disclosures in the financial statements, for instance through the imposition of fines or litigation. We
identified the following areas as those most likely to have such an effect:
• Specific aspects of regulatory capital and liquidity;
• Other banking laws and regulations, including securities issuance law;
• Customer conduct rules (including the consumer duty)
• Money laundering;
• Ring-fencing rules;
• Sanctions list and financial crime;
• Market abuse regulations;
• Certain aspects of company legislation recognising the financial and regulated nature of the Group’s activities.
Auditing standards limit the required audit procedures to identify non-compliance with these laws and regulations to enquiry of the
directors and other management and inspection of regulatory and legal correspondence, if any. If a breach of operational regulations is not
disclosed to us or evident from relevant correspondence, an audit will not detect that breach.
In relation to the legal, competition and regulatory matters disclosed in note 24 we performed audit procedures which included making
enquiries of Barclays internal counsel and inspection of minutes of meetings and regulatory correspondence. For a subset of these matters
which we deemed to be more significant we also made enquiries of external counsel and obtained legal confirmations from Barclays’
external counsel.
In respect of regulatory matters relating to conduct risk, our procedures included inspection of regulatory correspondence, independent
enquiry of the Group’s and Parent Company’s main regulators and performing audit procedures to respond to risks of material
misstatement identified in recognised conduct provisions.
We consider management’s response where potential non-compliance with laws and regulations has been identified that could reasonably
be expected to have a material effect on the financial statements, including their communication with those charged with governance and
regulators, remediation actions and controls implemented to prevent future recurrence. Refer to further disclosures in Note 24.
Context of the ability of the audit to detect fraud or breaches of law or regulation
Owing to the inherent limitations of an audit, there is an unavoidable risk that we may not have detected some material misstatements in
the financial statements, even though we have properly planned and performed our audit in accordance with auditing standards. For
example, the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial
statements, the less likely the inherently limited procedures required by auditing standards would identify it.
In addition, as with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection of fraud, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional
omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls. Our audit procedures are designed to detect material misstatement. We
are not responsible for preventing non-compliance or fraud and cannot be expected to detect non-compliance with all laws and
regulations.
on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except as
explicitly stated below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, the
information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the financial statements or our audit knowledge. Based solely on that work
we have not identified material misstatements in the other information.
Strategic report and directors’ report
Based solely on our work on the other information:
• we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report and the directors’ report;
• in our opinion the information given in those reports for the financial year is consistent with the financial statements; and
• in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
7 We have nothing to report on the other matters on which we are required to report by exception
Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been
received from branches not visited by us; or
• the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
• certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have nothing to report in these respects.

[PAGE 170]

Independent Auditor’s report
Independent Auditor’s report to the members of Barclays Bank UK PLC
8 Respective responsibilities
Directors’ responsibilities
As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 34, the directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial statements
including being satisfied that they give a true and fair view; such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of
financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; assessing the Group and Parent Company’s
ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern; and using the going concern basis of
accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative
but to do so.
Auditor’s responsibilities
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement,
whether due to fraud or error, and to issue our opinion in an auditor’s report. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but does
not guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected
to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRC’s website at www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities.
9 The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe our responsibilities
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our
audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an
auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other
than the Company and the Company’s members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Karyn Nicoll (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants
15 Canada Square
London
E14 5GL
12 February 2025

[PAGE 171]

Consolidated financial statements
Consolidated income statement
For the year ended 31 December 2024 2023
Note £m £m
Interest and similar income 3 12,588 11,024
Interest and similar expense 3 (5,851) (4,597)
Net interest income 6,737 6,427
Fee and commission income 4 1,507 1,605
Fee and commission expense 4 (411) (370)
Net fee and commission income 1,096 1,235
Net trading (expense)/income 5 (16) 35
Net investment income/(expense) 6 41 (91)
Gain on acquisition 35 558 —
Other income 7 64
Total income 8,423 7,670
Staff costs 28 (1,215) (1,209)
Infrastructure costs 7 (258) (343)
Administration and general expenses 7 (2,939) (2,994)
UK regulatory levies 7 (78) (30)
Provisions for litigation and conduct 22 (21) 9
Operating expenses 7 (4,511) (4,567)
Loss on disposal of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 36 — (124)
Profit before impairment 3,912 2,979
Credit impairment charges 8 (352) (308)
Profit before tax 3,560 2,671
Taxation 9 (940) (749)
Profit after tax 2,620 1,922
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 2,422 1,745
Other equity instrument holders 198 177
Profit after tax 2,620 1,922
As permitted by section 408(3) of the Companies Act 2006 an income statement for the parent company has not been presented.

[PAGE 172]

Consolidated financial statements
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
For the year ended 31 December 2024 2023
£m £m
Profit after tax 2,620 1,922
Other comprehensive income/(loss) that may be recycled to profit or loss:
Fair value through other comprehensive income reserve movement relating to debt securities
Net (losses)/gains from changes in fair value (23) 346
Net gains/(losses) due to fair value hedging 7 (335)
Net (gains)/losses transferred to net profit on disposal (30) 76
Tax 13 (24)
Cash flow hedging reserve
Net gains from changes in fair value 246 1,942
Net losses/(gains) transferred to net profit 154 (462)
Tax (112) (415)
Other comprehensive income that may be recycled to profit or loss 255 1,128
Total comprehensive income for the year 2,875 3,050

[PAGE 173]

Consolidated financial statements
Consolidated balance sheet
As at 31 December 2024 2023
Note £m £m
Assets
Cash and balances at central banks 29,819 34,948
Cash collateral and settlement balances 6,002 5,507
Debt securities at amortised cost 17,983 17,794
Loans and advances at amortised cost to banks 281 1,213
Loans and advances at amortised cost to customers 206,435 200,782
Reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending at amortised cost 5,894 3,567
Trading portfolio assets 11 242 43
Financial assets at fair value through the income statement 12 1,543 1,716
Derivative financial instruments 13 1,901 1,566
Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 14 27,045 20,409
Goodwill and intangible assets 20 3,948 3,870
Property, plant and equipment 18 239 261
Deferred tax assets 9 1,212 1,296
Other assets 635 587
Total assets 303,179 293,559
Liabilities
Deposits at amortised cost from banks 85 6
Deposits at amortised cost from customers 244,376 241,218
Cash collateral and settlement balances 1,779 1,370
Repurchase agreements and other similar secured borrowing at amortised cost 15,506 15,265
Debt securities in issue 2,619 3,307
Subordinated liabilities 25 13,512 11,499
Trading portfolio liabilities 11 726 908
Financial liabilities designated at fair value 15 2,848 196
Derivative financial instruments 13 300 398
Current tax liabilities 954 540
Provisions 22 323 364
Other liabilities 21 1,566 1,627
Total liabilities 284,594 276,698
Equity
Called up share capital and share premium 26 5 5
Other equity instruments 26 2,425 2,429
Other reserves 27 (896) (1,151)
Retained earnings 17,051 15,578
Total equity 18,585 16,861
Total liabilities and equity 303,179 293,559
The Board of Directors approved the financial statements on pages 170 to 242 on 12 February 2025.
Sir John Kingman
Chair
Vim Maru
Chief Executive
Claire Peel
Chief Financial Officer

[PAGE 174]

Consolidated financial statements
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
Called up
share
capital Other
and share equity Other Retained
premium1 instruments1 reserves2 earnings Total equity
£m £m £m £m £m
Balance as at 1 January 2024 5 2,429 (1,151) 15,578 16,861
Profit after tax — 198 — 2,422 2,620
Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive
— — (33) — (33)
income
Cash flow hedges — — 288 — 288
Total comprehensive income for the year — 198 255 2,422 2,875
Employee share schemes — — — 42 42
Issue and redemption of other equity — (4) — — (4)
Other equity instruments coupons paid — (198) — — (198)
Vesting of Barclays PLC shares under share based payment
schemes — — — (15) (15)
Dividends paid — — — (975) (975)
Other reserve movements — — — (1) (1)
Balance as at 31 December 2024 5 2,425 (896) 17,051 18,585
Balance as at 1 January 2023 5 2,560 (2,279) 15,127 15,413
Profit after tax — 177 — 1,745 1,922
Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive
income — — 63 — 63
Cash flow hedges — — 1,065 — 1,065
Total comprehensive income for the year — 177 1,128 1,745 3,050
Employee share schemes — — — 22 22
Issue and exchange of other equity — (131) — 2 (129)
Other equity instruments coupons paid — (177) — — (177)
Vesting of Barclays Plc shares under share based payment
schemes — — — (16) (16)
Dividends paid — — — (1,305) (1,305)
Other reserve movements — — — 3 3
Balance as at 31 December 2023 5 2,429 (1,151) 15,578 16,861
Notes
1 For further details, refer to Note 26.
2 For further details, refer to Note 27.

[PAGE 175]

Consolidated financial statements
Consolidated cash flow statement
For the year ended 31 December 2024 20231
Note £m £m
Reconciliation of profit before tax to net cash flows from operating activities:
Profit before tax 3,560 2,671
Adjustment for non-cash items:
Credit impairment charges 352 308
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of property, plant, equipment and intangibles 95 146
Loss on disposal of subsidiaries — 124
Other provisions 68 69
Other non-cash movements 228 2,401
Changes in operating assets and liabilities
Net decrease in cash collateral and settlement balances 414 1,108
Net decrease in loans and advances at amortised cost 3,023 4,402
Net increase in reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending (2,327) (3,090)
Net decrease in deposits at amortised cost (3,686) (17,016)
Net decrease in debt securities in issue (1,242) (4,702)
Net increase/(decrease) in repurchase agreements and other similar secured borrowing 241 (2,437)
Net increase in derivative financial instruments (413) (1,519)
Net (increase)/decrease in trading portfolio assets and liabilities (381) 455
Net decrease in financial assets at fair value through the income statement 173 264
Net increase in financial liabilities designated at fair value1 2,652 196
Net increase in other assets and liabilities (276) (52)
Corporate income tax paid (522) (583)
Net cash from operating activities 1,959 (17,255)
Purchase of debt securities at amortised cost (4,615) (5,108)
Proceeds from sale or redemption of debt securities at amortised cost 3,932 4,930
Purchase of financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income (21,343) (22,714)
Proceeds from sale or redemption of financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 14,959 22,410
Purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangibles (13) (25)
Acquisition of business, net of cash acquired (228) (2,378)
Disposal of subsidiaries, net of cash disposed — (141)
Net cash from investing activities (7,308) (3,026)
Dividends paid and other coupon payments on equity instruments (1,173) (1,482)
Issuance of subordinated liabilities 25 2,277 4,393
Redemption of subordinated liabilities 25 (372) (1,136)
Lease liability payments (53) (63)
Issue of shares and other equity instruments 26 618 619
Redemption of shares and other equity instruments 26 (622) (750)
Vesting of employee share schemes (15) (16)
Net cash from financing activities 660 1,565
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (4,689) (18,716)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 40,364 59,080
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 35,675 40,364
Cash and cash equivalents comprise:
Cash and balances at central banks 29,819 34,948
Loans and advances to banks with original maturity less than three months 231 291
Cash collateral balances with central banks with original maturity less than three months 5,625 5,125
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 35,675 40,364
Note
1 In the prior year, the changes in operating assets and liabilities in the reconciliation of profit before tax to net cash flows from operating activities, showed a single line
item for repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements. In the current year the changes related to repurchase agreements have been shown separately from those
relating to reverse repurchase agreements to provide the user of the accounts with greater transparency, the comparatives have been re-presented to show changes
related to repurchase agreements of (£2,437m) and changes related to reverse repurchase agreements of (£3,090m) instead of the aggregated change of (£5,527m). In
the prior year, cash flows relating to debt securities at amortised cost and financial assets at fair value through comprehensive income were both presented on a net
basis. In the current year, both items have been presented on a gross basis. The comparatives have been re-presented to show an outflow of (£5,108m) for purchase of
debt securities at amortised cost and an inflow of £4,930m for proceeds from sale and redemption of debt securities at amortised cost, instead of the net outflow of
(£178m). Similarly, the comparatives have been represented to show an outflow of (£22,714m) for the purchase of Financial assets at fair value through other
comprehensive income and an inflow of £22,410m for the sale of Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income, instead of a net outflow of
(£304m). Prior year financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit and loss, cash inflow of £196m, has been re-presented from investing activity to operating
activity. This has resulted in an overall change to net cash from investing activities and operating activities.
Interest received was £12,501m (2023: £10,941m) and interest paid was £5,585m (2023: £3,969m). 2023 comparative figures have been
amended to make the cash flow statement more relevant following a review of the disclosure and the basis of preparation applied.
Following that review, the basis of preparation of interest received and paid has been amended to reflect interest received and interest paid
on activity where interest is recognised on an effective interest rate basis to make the cash flow statement information more relevant with
reference to net interest income recognised in the income statement and enhancing comparability with industry peers. Previously, amounts
related to trading activities were also included. In addition, in the prior year cash interest received and paid was disclosed on an accruals
basis. This has been adjusted in the comparatives.
As at 31 December 2024, the Barclays Bank UK Group was required to maintain balances with central banks in respect of interbank
payment schemes of £628m (2023: £1,032m).
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash comprises cash on hand and demand deposits and cash equivalents comprise highly
liquid investments that are convertible into cash with an insignificant risk of changes in value with original maturities of three months or
less. Repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements are not considered to be part of cash equivalents.

[PAGE 176]

Financial statements of Barclays Bank UK PLC
Parent company accounts
Balance sheet
As at 31 December 2024 2023
Note £m £m
Assets
Cash and balances at central banks 29,819 34,948
Cash collateral and settlement balances 6,002 5,507
Debt securities at amortised cost 17,983 17,794
Loans and advances at amortised cost to banks 316 1,305
Loans and advances at amortised cost to customers 206,786 201,242
Reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending at amortised cost 5,894 3,567
Trading portfolio assets 11 242 43
Financial assets at fair value through the income statement 12 1,543 1,716
Derivative financial instruments 13 1,901 1,566
Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 14 27,045 20,409
Investment in subsidiaries 36 495 495
Goodwill and intangible assets 20 3,460 3,380
Property, plant and equipment 18 236 259
Deferred tax assets 9 1,203 1,287
Other assets 646 586
Total assets 303,571 294,104
Liabilities
Deposits at amortised cost from banks 35 6
Deposits at amortised cost from customers 245,409 241,868
Cash collateral and settlement balances 1,779 1,370
Repurchase agreements and other similar secured borrowing at amortised cost 15,506 15,265
Debt securities in issue 2,065 3,307
Subordinated liabilities 25 13,512 11,499
Trading portfolio liabilities 11 726 908
Financial liabilities designated at fair value 15 2,848 196
Derivative financial instruments 13 319 427
Current tax liabilities 958 536
Provisions 22 267 311
Other liabilities 21 1,578 1,603
Total liabilities 285,002 277,296
Equity
Called up share capital and share premium 26 5 5
Other equity instruments 26 2,425 2,429
Other reserves 27 (794) (1,049)
Retained earnings1 16,933 15,423
Total equity 18,569 16,808
Total liabilities and equity 303,571 294,104
Note
1 As permitted by section 408(3) of the Companies Act 2006 an income statement for the parent company has not been presented. Included in shareholders’
equity for the parent company is a profit after tax for the year ended 31 December 2024 of £2,657m (2023: £1,734m).
The Board of Directors approved the financial statements on pages 175 to 177 on 12 February 2025.
Sir John Kingman
Chair
Vim Maru
Chief Executive
Claire Peel
Chief Financial Officer

[PAGE 177]

Financial statements of Barclays Bank UK PLC
Parent company accounts
Statement of changes in equity
Called up share
capital and
share Other equity Retained
premium1 instruments1 Other reserves2 earnings Total equity
£m £m £m £m £m
Balance as at 1 January 2024 5 2,429 (1,049) 15,423 16,808
Profit after tax — 198 — 2,459 2,657
Financial assets at fair value through other
comprehensive income — — (33) — (33)
Cash flow hedges — — 288 — 288
Total comprehensive income for the year — 198 255 2,459 2,912
Equity settled share schemes — — — 42 42
Issue and redemption of other equity — (4) — — (4)
Other equity instruments coupons paid — (198) — — (198)
Vesting of Barclays PLC shares under share based
payment schemes — — — (15) (15)
Dividends paid — — — (975) (975)
Other movements — — — (1) (1)
Balance as at 31 December 2024 5 2,425 (794) 16,933 18,569
Balance as at 1 January 2023 5 2,560 (2,177) 15,165 15,553
Profit after tax — 177 — 1,557 1,734
Financial assets at fair value through other
comprehensive income — — 63 — 63
Cash flow hedges — — 1,065 — 1,065
Total comprehensive income for the year — 177 1,128 1,557 2,862
Equity settled share schemes — — — 22 22
Issue and redemption of other equity — (131) — 2 (129)
Other equity instruments coupons paid — (177) — — (177)
Vesting of Barclays Plc shares under share based
payment schemes — — — (16) (16)
Dividends paid — — — (1,305) (1,305)
Other movements — — — (2) (2)
Balance as at 31 December 2023 5 2,429 (1,049) 15,423 16,808
Notes
1 For further details, refer to Note 26.
2 For further details, refer to Note 27.

[PAGE 178]

Financial statements of Barclays Bank UK PLC
Parent company accounts
Cash flow statement
For the year ended 31 December 2024 20231
Note £m £m
Reconciliation of profit before tax to net cash flows from operating activities:
Profit before tax 3,593 2,478
Adjustment for non-cash items:
Credit impairment charges 351 310
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of property, plant, equipment and intangibles 95 140
Loss on disposal of subsidiaries — 296
Other provisions 61 106
Other non-cash movements 218 2,368
Changes in operating assets and liabilities
Net decrease in cash collateral and settlement balances 414 1,113
Net decrease in loans and advances at amortised cost 3,160 4,833
Net increase in reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending (2,327) (3,090)
Net decrease in deposits at amortised cost (3,900) (17,203)
Net decrease in debt securities in issue (1,242) (4,702)
Net increase/(decrease) in repurchase agreements and other similar secured borrowing 241 (2,437)
Net increase in derivative financial instruments (423) (1,533)
Net (increase)/decrease in trading portfolio assets and liabilities (381) 455
Net decrease in financial assets at fair value through the income statement 173 264
Net increase in financial liabilities designated at fair value 2,652 196
Net increase in other assets and liabilities (235) (166)
Corporate income tax paid (510) (583)
Net cash from operating activities 1,940 (17,155)
Purchase of debt securities at amortised cost (4,614) (5,108)
Proceeds from sale or redemption of debt securities at amortised cost 3,932 4,930
Purchase of financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income (21,343) (22,714)
Proceeds from sale or redemption of financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 14,959 22,410
Purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangibles (4) (22)
Acquisition of business, net of cash acquired (228) (2,466)
Net cash from investing activities (7,298) (2,970)
Dividends paid and other coupon payments on equity instruments (1,173) (1,482)
Issuance of subordinated liabilities 25 2,277 4,393
Redemption of subordinated liabilities 25 (372) (1,136)
Lease liability payments (53) (63)
Issue of shares and other equity instruments 26 618 619
Redemption of shares and other equity instruments 26 (622) (750)
Vesting of employee share schemes (15) (16)
Net cash from financing activities 660 1,565
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (4,698) (18,560)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 40,458 59,018
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 35,760 40,458
Cash and cash equivalents comprise:
Cash and balances at central banks 29,819 34,948
Loans and advances to banks with original maturity less than three months 316 385
Cash collateral balances with central banks with original maturity less than three months 5,625 5,125
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 35,760 40,458
Note
1 In the prior year, the changes in operating assets and liabilities in the reconciliation of profit before tax to net cash flows from operating activities, showed a single line
item for repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements. In the current year the changes related to repurchase agreements have been shown separately from those
relating to reverse repurchase agreements to provide the user of the accounts with greater transparency, the comparatives have been re-presented to show changes
related to repurchase agreements of (£2,437m) and changes related to reverse repurchase agreements of (£3,090m) instead of the aggregated change of (£5,527m).
In the prior year, cash flows relating to debt securities at amortised cost and financial assets at fair value through comprehensive income were both presented on a net
basis. In the current year, both items have been presented on a gross basis. The comparatives have been re-presented to show an outflow of (£5,108m) for purchase
of debt securities at amortised cost and an inflow of £4,930m for proceeds from sale and redemption of debt securities at amortised cost, instead of the net outflow of
(£178m). Similarly, the comparatives have been represented to show an outflow of (£22,714m) for the purchase of Financial assets at fair value through other
comprehensive income and an inflow of £22,410m for the sale of Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income, instead of a net outflow of
(£304m). Prior year financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit and loss, cash inflow of £196m, has been re-presented from investing activity to
operating activity. This has resulted in an overall change to net cash from investing activities and operating activities.
Interest received was £12,503m (2023: £11,313m) and interest paid was £5,592m (2023: £4,347m). 2023 comparative figures have been
amended to make the cash flow statement more relevant following a review of the disclosure and the basis of preparation applied.
Following that review, the basis of preparation of interest received and paid has been amended to reflect interest received and interest paid
on activity where interest is recognised on an effective interest rate basis to make the cash flow statement information more relevant with
reference to net interest income recognised in the income statement and enhancing comparability with industry peers. Previously, amounts
related to trading activities were also included. In addition, in the prior year cash interest received and paid was disclosed on an accruals
basis. This has been adjusted in the comparatives. Dividends received were £30m (2023: £28m).
As at 31 December 2024, Barclays Bank UK PLC was required to maintain balances with central banks in respect of interbank payment
schemes of £628m (2023: £1,032m).
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash comprises cash on hand and demand deposits and cash equivalents comprise highly
liquid investments that are convertible into cash with an insignificant risk of changes in value with original maturities of three months or
less. Repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements are not considered to be part of cash equivalents.

[PAGE 179]

Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2024
This section describes the Barclays Bank UK Group’s material accounting policies and critical accounting judgements and estimates that
relate to the financial statements and notes as a whole. If an accounting policy or a critical accounting judgement or estimate relates to a
particular note, disclosure is contained within the relevant note.
1 Material accounting policies
1 Reporting entity
Barclays Bank UK PLC is a public company limited by shares, registered in England under company number 9740322, having its registered
office at 1 Churchill Place, London, E14 5HP.
These financial statements are prepared for Barclays Bank UK PLC and its subsidiaries (the Barclays Bank UK Group) under Section 399 of
the Companies Act 2006. The Barclays Bank UK Group is a major UK financial services provider engaged in retail banking, credit cards,
and wholesale banking. In addition, separate financial statements have been presented for the parent company.
2 Compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)
The consolidated financial statements of the Barclays Bank UK Group, and the separate financial statements of Barclays Bank UK PLC,
have been prepared in accordance with UK-adopted international accounting standards.
The consolidated financial statements of the Barclays Bank UK Group, and the separate financial statements of Barclays Bank UK PLC,
have also been prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), including
interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee, as there are no applicable differences from IFRS as issued by the IASB for
the periods presented.
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of the consolidated and separate financial statements are set out below, and
in the relevant notes to the financial statements. These policies have been consistently applied, with the exception of Classification of
Liabilities as Current or Non-current (Amendments to IAS 1), which was effective from 1 January 2024 and applies retrospectively.
3 Basis of preparation
The consolidated and separate financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention modified to include the fair
valuation of particular financial instruments, to the extent required or permitted under IFRS as set out in the relevant accounting policies.
The financial statements are stated in millions of Pounds Sterling (£m), the functional currency of Barclays Bank UK PLC.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 as applicable to
companies using IFRS. The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis, as the Board is satisfied that the Barclays Bank UK
Group and parent company have the resources to continue in business for a period of at least 12 months from approval of the financial
statements.
In making this assessment, the Board has considered a wide range of information relating to present and future conditions and includes a
review of a working capital report (WCR). The WCR is used by the Board to assess the future performance of the Barclays Bank UK Group
and that it has the resources in place that are required to meet its ongoing regulatory requirements. The assessment is based upon
business plans which contain future projections of profitability taken from the Barclays Bank UK Group’s medium-term plan as well as
projections of regulatory capital requirements and business funding needs. The WCR also includes an assessment of the impact of
internally generated stress testing scenarios on the liquidity and capital requirement forecasts. The stress tests used were based upon
an assessment of reasonably possible downside economic scenarios that the Barclays Bank UK Group could experience.
The WCR showed that the Barclays Bank UK Group had sufficient capital in place to support its future business requirements and
remained above its regulatory minimum requirements in the stress scenarios. Accordingly, the Board concluded that there was a
reasonable expectation that the Barclays Bank UK Group has adequate resources to continue as a going concern for a period of at least
12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements.

[PAGE 180]

Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2024
1 Material accounting policies (continued)
4. Accounting policies
The Barclays Bank UK Group prepares financial statements in accordance with IFRS. The Barclays Bank UK Group’s material accounting
policies relating to specific financial statement items, together with a description of the accounting estimates and judgements that were
critical to preparing those items, are set out under the relevant notes. Accounting policies that affect the financial statements as a whole
are set out below.
(i) Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements combine the financial statements of Barclays Bank UK PLC and all its subsidiaries. Subsidiaries are
entities over which Barclays Bank UK PLC has control. The Barclays Bank UK Group has control over another entity when the Barclays
Bank UK Group has all of the following:
1) power over the relevant activities of the investee, for example through voting or other rights;
2) exposure to, or rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the investee; and
3) the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
None of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s subsidiaries are significant in the context of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s business, results or
financial position. A complete list of all subsidiaries is presented in Note 37.
In the individual financial statements of Barclays Bank UK PLC, investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less impairment.
(ii) Foreign currency translation
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into Sterling at the rate ruling on the date of the transaction. Foreign currency
monetary balances are translated into Sterling at the period end exchange rates. Exchange gains and losses on such balances are taken
to the income statement.
(iii) Financial assets and liabilities
Recognition
The Barclays Bank UK Group recognises financial assets and liabilities when it becomes a party to the terms of the contract. Trade date
or settlement date accounting is applied depending on the classification of the financial asset.
Classification and measurement
Financial assets are classified on the basis of two criteria:
i) the business model within which financial assets are managed; and
ii) their contractual cash flow characteristics (whether the cash flows represent ‘solely payments of principal and interest’ (SPPI)).
The Barclays Bank UK Group assesses the business model criteria at a portfolio level. Information that is considered in determining the
applicable business model includes (i) policies and objectives for the relevant portfolio, (ii) how the performance and risks of the
portfolio are managed, evaluated and reported to management, and (iii) the frequency, volume and timing of sales in prior periods, sales
expectation for future periods, and the reasons for such sales.
The contractual cash flow characteristics of financial assets are assessed with reference to whether the cash flows represent SPPI.
Terms that could change the contractual cash flows so that it would not meet the condition for SPPI are considered, including: (i)
contingent and leverage features, (ii) non-recourse arrangements, (iii) features that could modify the time value of money, and (iv)
Social, Environmental and Sustainability-linked features. Terms with de-minimis impact do not preclude cash flows from representing
SPPI.
The accounting policy for each type of financial asset or liability is included within the relevant note for the item. The Barclays Bank UK
Group’s policies for determining the fair values of the assets and liabilities are set out in Note 16.

[PAGE 181]

Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2024
1 Material accounting policies (continued)
Derecognition
The Barclays Bank UK Group derecognises a financial asset, or a portion of a financial asset, from its balance sheet where (i) the
contractual rights to cash flows from the asset have expired, or (ii) the contractual rights to cash flows from the asset have been
transferred (usually by sale) and with them either (a) substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset have been transferred, or (b)
where neither substantially all the risks and reward have been transferred or retained, where control over the asset has been lost.
Financial liabilities are derecognised when the liability has been settled, has expired or has been extinguished. An exchange of an
existing financial liability for a new liability with the same lender on substantially different terms – generally a difference of 10% or more
in the present value of the cash flows or a substantive qualitative amendment – is accounted for as an extinguishment of the original
financial liability and the recognition of a new financial liability.
It may not be obvious whether substantially all of the risks and rewards of a transferred asset, or portion of an asset, have been
transferred. It is often necessary to perform a quantitative analysis that compares the Barclays Bank UK Group’s exposure to variability in
asset cash flows before the transfer with its retained exposure after the transfer. A cash flow analysis of this nature may require
judgement. In particular, it is necessary to estimate the asset’s expected future cash flows as well as potential variability around this
expectation. The method of estimating expected future cash flows depends on the nature of the asset, with market and market-implied
data used to the greatest extent possible. The potential variability around this expectation is typically determined by stressing underlying
parameters to create reasonable alternative upside and downside scenarios. Probabilities are then assigned to each scenario. Stressed
parameters may include default rates, loss severity, or prepayment rates.
Accounting for reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements including other similar lending and borrowing
Reverse repurchase agreements (and stock borrowing or similar transactions) are a form of secured lending whereby the Barclays Bank
UK Group provides a loan or cash collateral in exchange for the transfer of collateral, generally in the form of marketable securities
subject to an agreement to transfer the securities back at a fixed price in the future. Repurchase agreements are where the Barclays
Bank UK Group obtains such loans or cash collateral, in exchange for the transfer of collateral.
The Barclays Bank UK Group purchases (a reverse repurchase agreement) or borrows securities subject to a commitment to resell or
return them. The securities are not included in the balance sheet as the Barclays Bank UK Group does not acquire the risks and rewards
of ownership. Consideration paid (or cash collateral provided) is accounted for as a loan asset at amortised cost, unless it is designated
or mandatorily at fair value through profit and loss.
The Barclays Bank UK Group may also sell (a repurchase agreement) or lend securities subject to a commitment to repurchase or
redeem them. The securities are retained on the balance sheet as the Barclays Bank UK Group retains substantially all the risks and
rewards of ownership. Consideration received (or cash collateral provided) is accounted for as a financial liability at amortised cost,
unless it is designated at fair value through profit and loss.
(iv) Issued debt and equity instruments
Issued financial instruments or their components are classified as liabilities if the contractual arrangement results in the Barclays Bank
UK Group having an obligation to either deliver cash or another financial asset, or a variable number of equity shares, to the holder of
the instrument. If this is not the case, the instrument is generally an equity instrument and the proceeds included in equity, net of
transaction costs. Dividends and other returns to equity holders are recognised when paid or declared by the members at the Annual
General Meeting and treated as a deduction from equity.
Where issued financial instruments contain both liability and equity components, these are accounted for separately. The fair value of
the debt is estimated first and the balance of the proceeds is included within equity.

[PAGE 182]

Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2024
1 Material accounting policies (continued)
(v) Cash flow statement
Cash comprises cash on hand and balances at central banks. Cash equivalents comprise loans and advances to banks, cash collateral
balances with central banks related to payment schemes and treasury and other eligible bills, all with original maturities of three months
or less. Investments in debt securities at amortised cost are deemed to be investing activities for the purposes of the cash flow
statement, except those instruments considered to be cash equivalents.
(vi) Accounting for business combinations
In accordance with IFRS 3, the Barclays Bank UK Group accounts for business combinations using the acquisition method. Under the
acquisition method, the identifiable assets and liabilities of the acquiree are recognised by the acquirer on the acquisition date, which is
determined to be the date the acquirer obtains control of the acquiree under IFRS 10.
The identifiable assets and liabilities are initially recognised at fair value by the acquirer, unless required otherwise by another
accounting standard, such as IAS 12 Income Taxes and IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
A non-controlling interest, also known as a minority interest, arises where the acquirer does not acquire 100% of the acquiree.
Goodwill is recognised if the fair value of the consideration transferred is greater than the fair value of the identifiable assets and
liabilities assumed. Goodwill is tested annually for impairment or more frequently if an indicator of impairment is identified. If the fair
value of consideration transferred is less than the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities assumed then a gain is recognised in
the income statement.
If the acquisition is incomplete at the end of the reporting period, then the acquirer prepares its financial statements using the
information available. The financial statements are then retrospectively adjusted for new information of facts and circumstances that
existed as at the acquisition date becomes available, but the adjustment period may not exceed one year from the acquisition date.
5 New and amended standards and interpretations
The accounting policies adopted have been consistently applied, with the exception of the following:
Classification of Liabilities as Current or Non-current (Amendments to IAS 1)
In January 2020 the IASB issued amendments to IAS 1 to clarify the presentation of liabilities in the balance sheet, with an effective date
that was subsequently deferred to 1 January 2024.
The amendments clarify that a liability should be classified as non-current only if the entity has the right to defer settlement of the
liability for at least 12 months after the reporting period, and that (i) the right to defer settlement must exist at the end of the reporting
period and (ii) management’s intentions or expectations about whether it will exercise its right to defer settlement does not affect the
classification. Further clarifications include how lending conditions affect classification and classification of liabilities the entity will or
may settle by issuing its own equity instruments.
In October 2022, the IASB also issued further amendments to IAS 1 to improve the information an entity provides when its right to defer
settlement of a liability for at least 12 months is subject to compliance with covenants, and to respond to stakeholders’ concerns about
the classification of such a liability as current or non-current.
The impact to the Barclays Bank UK Group from these amendments is not considered to be material.

[PAGE 183]

Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2024
1 Material accounting policies (continued)
Future accounting developments
The following accounting standards have been issued by the IASB but are not yet effective:
Amendment to IFRS 9 and IFRS 7 - Classification and Measurement of Financial Instruments
In May 2024, the IASB issued targeted amendments to IFRS 9 to address feedback received from stakeholders following a post-
implementation review. The amendments include:
• additional guidance to clarify when certain financial assets may be compliant with SPPI requirements, including instruments with
contingent features (e.g. ESG-linked financing), as well as contractually-linked instruments and non-recourse financing.
• clarifying the derecognition requirements for financial assets and financial liabilities, including establishing a new accounting policy
choice for derecognition of a financial liability when a payment is initiated by the reporting entity using an electronic payment system
provided specified criteria is met.
The amendments are effective from 1 January 2026, but are not yet endorsed for use in the UK. The Barclays Bank UK Group is currently
assessing the impact of these amendments.
IFRS 18 Presentation and Disclosure in Financial Statements
In August 2024, the IASB issued a new IFRS Accounting Standard to replace IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements. The new
standard creates detailed requirements for the classification and aggregation of income and expenses in the income statement, and
disclosure requirements for management-defined performance measures.
The new standard is effective from 1 January 2027, but has not yet been endorsed for use in the UK. The Barclays Bank UK Group is
currently assessing the impact of these amendments.
Amendments to IAS 21 - Lack of Exchangeability
In August 2023, the IASB issued amendments to IAS 21 to define when a currency is exchangeable into another currency and, when it is
not, to determine the exchange rate to use.
The amendments are effective from 1 January 2025, however the impact to the Barclays Bank UK Group is not expected to be material.
6 Critical accounting estimates and judgements
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires the use of estimates. It also requires management to exercise
judgement in applying the accounting policies. The key areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity or areas where
assumptions are significant to the consolidated and individual financial statements are highlighted under the relevant note.
Judgements Estimates Further information
Credit impairment charges Identification and application of Estimates include modelling on page 192
management adjustments in assumptions such as forward-
response to circumstances looking modelled parameters
outside the scope of the model. (PD, EAD & LGD), and a range of
unbiased future economic
scenarios and scenario
weightings.
Fair value of financial instruments Classification of financial Valuation of Level 3 assets and on page 206
instruments with significant liabilities are typically determined
unobservable inputs as Level 3. by referencing observable inputs,
historical data, or employing
other analytical techniques.
Goodwill and intangible assets Identification of cash generating The value-in-use (VIU) of a CGU on page 220
units (CGUs) and allocation of for impairment testing includes
goodwill for impairment testing. forecasting future cashflows and
determination of the discount
rate.
Provisions including conduct and Determination as to whether a Estimation uncertainty in the on page 222
legal, competition and regulatory present obligation exists. probability, timing, nature and
matters quantum of outflows.
7 Other disclosures
To improve transparency and ease of reference, by concentrating related information in one place, certain disclosures required under IFRS
have been included within the Risk review section as follows:
▪ Credit risk on pages 63 to 64 and the tables on pages 78 to 133
▪ Market risk on page 64 and the narratives on page 134
▪ Treasury and capital risk – liquidity on pages 65 to 66 and the tables on pages 136 to 143
▪ Treasury and capital risk – capital on pages 65 to 66 and the tables on page 144
These disclosures are covered by the Audit opinion (included on pages 160 to 169) where referenced as audited.

[PAGE 184]

Notes to the financial statements
Financial performance and returns
The notes included in this section focus on the results and performance of the Barclays Bank UK Group. Information on the income
generated, expenditure incurred, segmental performance, tax and dividends are included here.
2 Segmental reporting
Presentation of segmental reporting
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Executive Committee, which is
responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, and has been identified as the chief operating
decision maker. All transactions between business segments are conducted on an arm’s-length basis, with intra-segment revenue and
costs being eliminated in Head Office. Income and expenses directly associated with each segment are included in determining business
segment performance.
For segmental reporting purposes, the Barclays Bank UK Group divisions are defined as:
▪ Personal Banking which comprises Personal and Premier banking, Mortgages including Kensington Mortgage Company, Savings, Wealth
and Investment Management. 2024 balances include the acquisition of Tesco Bank (see Note 35 for further details). Note that the UK
Wealth Management and Investments portfolio was transferred to Barclays Bank PLC in May 2023, subsequently the Personal Banking
segment below only includes the impact of Wealth and Investment to this date.
▪ Barclaycard Consumer UK which comprises the Barclaycard UK consumer credit cards business.
• Business Banking which offers products, services and specialist advice to clients ranging from start-ups to medium-sized businesses and
is where the ESHLA loan portfolio is held.
The below table also includes Head Office which includes central support functions.
Analysis of results by business
Personal Barclaycard Business Barclays Bank
Banking Consumer UK Banking Head Office UK Group
For the year ended 31 December 2024 £m £m £m £m £m
Net interest income 4,309 754 1,617 57 6,737
Non-interest income/(expense) 1,143 184 400 (41) 1,686
Total income1 5,452 938 2,017 16 8,423
Operating costs (2,792) (607) (1,034) 21 (4,412)
UK regulatory levies2 (53) (7) (18) — (78)
Litigation and conduct (13) (2) (1) (5) (21)
Total operating expenses (2,858) (616) (1,053) 16 (4,511)
Profit before impairment 2,594 322 964 32 3,912
Credit impairment (charges)/releases (267) (113) 28 — (352)
Profit before tax 2,327 209 992 32 3,560
Total assets (£bn) 234.8 11.4 57.0 0.0 303.2
Total liabilities (£bn) 221.7 4.0 58.7 0.2 284.6
Number of employees (full time equivalent) 18,200
Average number of employees (full time equivalent) 16,200
Average number of employees (headcount) 17,300
For the year ended 31 December 2023 £m £m £m £m £m
Net interest income 4,118 807 1,526 (24) 6,427
Non-interest income/(expense) 725 158 379 (19) 1,243
Total income 4,843 965 1,905 (43) 7,670
Operating costs (3,072) (578) (949) 53 (4,546)
UK regulatory levies2 (14) (4) (12) — (30)
Litigation and conduct (7) (1) 18 (1) 9
Total operating expenses (3,093) (583) (943) 52 (4,567)
Loss on disposal of subsidiaries, associates and joint
ventures (124) — — — (124)
Profit before impairment 1,626 382 962 9 2,979
Credit impairment (charges)/releases (175) (162) 29 — (308)
Profit before tax 1,451 220 991 9 2,671
Total assets (£bn) 219.0 10.3 64.3 — 293.6
Total liabilities (£bn) 218.9 0.5 56.9 0.4 276.7
Number of employees (full time equivalent) 14,900
Average number of employees (full time equivalent) 16,100
Average number of employees (headcount) 17,500
Notes
1 Personal Banking includes day 1 gain from the acquisition of Tesco Bank.
2 Comprises the impact of the Bank of England (BoE) levy scheme and the UK bank levy.

[PAGE 185]

Notes to the financial statements
Financial performance and returns
Income by geographic region
The Barclays Bank UK Group generates income from business activities in the United Kingdom.
3 Net interest income
Accounting for interest income and expenses
Interest income on loans and advances at amortised cost, financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income, interest
expense on financial liabilities held at amortised cost are calculated using the effective interest method which allocates interest, and direct
and incremental fees and costs, over the expected lives of the assets and liabilities.
The effective interest method requires the Barclays Bank UK Group to estimate future cash flows, in some cases based on its experience of
customers’ behaviour, considering all contractual terms of the financial instrument, as well as the expected lives of the assets and
liabilities.
The Barclays Bank UK Group derives certain fees and incurs certain costs in the origination of mortgage products. Such fees and costs
where directly attributable and incremental to the origination of the instrument, are deferred on the balance sheet and subsequently
included within the calculation of the effective interest rate. They are amortised to interest income over the period of expected life.
Similarly, for mortgage products with distinct periods (initial and follow-on) and contractual margins over the original term wherein the
initial contractual margin varies from the average calculated return, additional interest is deferred on the balance sheet and released to
interest income over the remaining expected life. This adjustment results in a constant rate of return over contractual rate(s) recognised
in the income statement.
There is judgement involved in application of the effective interest rate (EIR) method for loans measured at amortised cost, in particular
developing repayment expectations for long dated instruments such as mortgages. Application of the EIR method adjusts the timing and
amount of interest recognition, with qualifying revenue and expenses deferred and recognised through the life of the instrument as well
as the deferred or accelerated recognition of interest where instruments have contractually specified decreases or increases in the
calculation of interest.
EIR is subject to judgements regarding the rate at which loans are repaid, the key judgement being the prepayment rate following the end
of the initial discount period, which is informed by internal modelling and reviewed quarterly. The review considers prepayment estimates
against recent observed customer behaviour, with the carrying value of the EIR asset adjusted accordingly.
EIR calculations are performed at a portfolio level, aggregating financial instruments with similar characteristics and contractual terms.
The values in the table below reflect net interest income post application of the EIR method.
2024 2023
£m £m
Cash and balances at central banks 1,509 1,878
Debt securities at amortised cost 708 530
Loans and advances at amortised cost 8,245 7,015
Fair value through other comprehensive income 1,467 1,099
Other1 659 502
Interest and similar income 12,588 11,024
Deposits at amortised cost (3,684) (2,707)
Debt securities in issue (251) (414)
Subordinated liabilities (1,000) (617)
Other2 (916) (859)
Interest and similar expense (5,851) (4,597)
Net interest income 6,737 6,427
Notes
1 Includes interest income from cash collateral and reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending at amortised cost and negative interest
on liabilities
2 Includes interest expense from cash collateral and repurchase agreement and other similar secured lending at amortised cost and negative expense on
assets
Interest and similar income presented above represents interest revenue calculated using the effective interest rate method. The EIR
calculation in relation to mortgage products requires the Barclays Bank UK Group to predict how long customers will stay on the follow-on
rate after their initial rate period finishes. If customers are predicted to stay on the follow-on rate for a shorter period, the size of the EIR
asset reduces. Conversely, if customers are predicted to remain on the follow-on rate for longer, the asset increases. Noting the high base
rate environment in 2024 against historical rates and other factors, the Barclays Bank UK Group has observed customers switching their
mortgages more than in prior periods. How those factors change and how switching behaviour develops will affect the entire behavioural
life of the mortgage product and assumptions are made based on an appropriate period of historical experience. The lookback period
applied has remained consistent year on year. The carrying value of the mortgage assets impacting the EIR calculation is £144bn (2023:
£140bn). For a 1% increase in the number of customers leaving within 12 months of their initial rate maturing (and associated impact on

[PAGE 186]

Notes to the financial statements
Financial performance and returns
timing of when they leave during the 12 months), an income statement charge of £100m (2023: £81m) to interest income would occur
based on the current mortgage asset. When considering indicators of the potential sensitivity in future financial years, the movement in the
EIR asset in each of the last five financial years has been below the 1% sensitivity level of £100m.
4 Net fee and commission income
Accounting for net fee and commission income
The Barclays Bank UK Group recognises fee and commission income charged for services provided by the Barclays Bank UK Group as and
when performance obligations are satisfied, for example, on completion of the underlying transaction. Incremental costs are reported
within fee and commission expense if they are directly attributable to generating identifiable fee and commission income. Where the
contractual arrangements also result in the Barclays Bank UK Group recognising financial instruments in scope of IFRS 9, such financial
instruments are initially recognised at fair value in accordance with IFRS 9 before applying the provisions of IFRS 15.
Fee and commission income is disaggregated below by fee types that reflect the nature of the services offered across the Barclays Bank UK
Group and operating segments, in accordance with IFRS 15. The below table includes a total for fees in scope of IFRS 15. Refer to Note 2 for
more detailed information about operating segments.
2024
Personal Barclaycard Business
Banking Consumer UK Banking Head Office Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Fee type
Transactional 687 219 244 — 1,150
Advisory1 — — — — —
Brokerage and execution 114 — 101 — 215
Other 102 — 25 15 142
Fee and commission income 903 219 370 15 1,507
Fee and commission expense (331) (66) (14) — (411)
Net fee and commission income 572 153 356 15 1,096
2023
Personal Barclaycard Business
Banking Consumer UK Banking Head Office Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Fee type
Transactional 653 202 269 — 1,124
Advisory 52 — — — 52
Brokerage and execution 128 — 106 — 234
Other 145 — 25 25 195
Fee and commission income 978 202 400 25 1,605
Fee and commission expense (303) (55) (12) — (370)
Net fee and commission income 675 147 388 25 1,235
Note
1 Advisory fees have decreased to £nil in 2024 following the transfer of Wealth Management & Investments to Barclays Private Bank and Wealth Management
within Barclays Bank PLC in May 2023.
Fee types
Transactional
Transactional fees are service charges on deposit accounts, cash management services fees and transactional processing fees. These
include interchange and merchant fee income generated from credit and bank card usage. Transaction and processing fees are recognised
at the point in time the transaction occurs or service is performed. Interchange and merchant fees are recognised upon settlement of the
card transaction payment.
The Barclays Bank UK Group incurs certain card-related costs including those related to cardholder reward programmes. Cardholder
reward programme costs related to customers that settle their outstanding balance each period (transactors) are expensed when incurred
and presented in fee and commission expense, while costs related to customers that continuously carry an outstanding balance (revolvers)
are included in the effective interest rate of the receivable (refer to Note 3). Payments to partners for new cardholder account originations
related to transactor accounts are deferred as costs to obtain a contract under IFRS 15, while costs related to revolver accounts are
included in the effective interest rate of the receivable (refer to Note 3). Those costs deferred under IFRS 15 are capitalised and amortised
over the estimated life of the customer relationship. Payments to co-brand partners based on revenue sharing to the extent the revenue
share relates to revolvers are included in the effective interest rate of the receivable and to the extent revenue share relates to transactors it
must be presented in fee and commission expense. Payments based on profitability are presented in fee and commission expense.

[PAGE 187]

Notes to the financial statements
Financial performance and returns
Advisory
Advisory fees are generated from wealth management services. Wealth management advisory fees are earned over the period the services
are provided and are generally recognised quarterly when the market value of client assets is determined.
Brokerage and execution
Brokerage and execution fees are earned for facilitating foreign exchange transactions for spot/forward contracts. Brokerage and
execution fees are recognised at the point in time the associated service has been completed which is generally the trade date of the
transaction.
Contract assets and contract liabilities
The Barclays Bank UK Group had no material contract assets or contract liabilities as at 31 December 2024 (2023: £nil).
Impairment of fee receivables and contract assets
During 2024, there have been no material impairments recognised in relation to fees receivable and contract assets (2023: £nil). Fees in
relation to transactional business can be added to outstanding customer balances. These amounts may be subsequently impaired as part
of the overall loans and advances balance.
Remaining performance obligations
The Barclays Bank UK Group applies the practical expedient of IFRS 15 and does not disclose information about remaining performance
obligations that have original expected durations of one year or less or because the Barclays Bank UK Group has a right to consideration
that corresponds directly with the value of the service provided to the client or customer.
Costs incurred in obtaining or fulfilling a contract
The Barclays Bank UK Group expects that incremental costs of obtaining a contract such as success fee and commission fees paid are
recoverable and therefore capitalises such contract costs. Capitalised contract costs net of amortisation as at 31 December 2024 are £19m
(2023: £14m).
Capitalised contract costs are amortised over the customer relationship period depending on the transfer of services to which the asset
pertains. In 2024, the amount of amortisation was £4m (2023: £3m) and there was no impairment loss recognised in connection with the
capitalised contract costs (2023: £nil).
5 Net trading (expense)/income
Accounting for net trading (expense)/income
Trading positions are held at fair value, and the resulting gains and losses are included in net trading income, together with interest
arising from long and short positions and funding costs relating to trading activities. Incremental costs are reported within net trading
income if they are directly attributable to generating identifiable trading income.
Income arises from both the sale and purchase of trading positions and from changes in fair value caused by movements in interest and
exchange rates and other market variables.
Gains or losses on non-trading financial instruments designated or mandatorily at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in the
income statement are included in net trading income.
2024 2023
£m £m
Net (losses)/gains from assets and liabilities held for trading1 (45) 17
Net gains from financial instruments designated at fair value 29 18
Net trading (expense)/income (16) 35
Note
1 Net trading income within Barclays Bank UK Group predominantly comprises gains and losses on derivatives in treasury which are held as economic hedges
to manage risk and foreign exchange revaluations.
6 Net investment income/(expense)
Accounting for net investment income/(expense)
Dividends are recognised when the right to receive the dividend has been established. Incremental costs are reported within net
investment income if they are directly attributable to generating identifiable investment income. Other accounting policies relating to net
investment income are set out in Note 12 and Note 14.
2024 2023
£m £m
Net gains/(losses) from disposal of debt instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income 30 (76)
Net gains/(losses) from disposal of financial assets and liabilities measured at amortised cost 16 (9)
Net losses on other investments (5) (6)
Net investment income/(expense) 41 (91)

[PAGE 188]

Notes to the financial statements
Financial performance and returns
7 Operating expenses
2024 2023
£m £m
Infrastructure costs
Property and equipment 163 197
Depreciation and amortisation 80 99
Impairment of property, equipment and intangible assets 15 47
Total infrastructure costs 258 343
Administration and general expenses
Consultancy, legal and professional fees 113 116
Marketing and advertising 140 93
Other administration and general expenses 2,686 2,785
Total administration and general expenses 2,939 2,994
Staff costs1 1,215 1,209
UK regulatory levies2 78 30
Provisions for litigation and conduct 21 (9)
Operating expenses 4,511 4,567
Notes
1 For further details on staff costs including accounting policies, refer to Note 28.
2 Comprises the impact of the Bank of England (BoE) levy scheme and the UK bank levy.
.

[PAGE 189]

Notes to the financial statements
Financial performance and returns
8 Credit impairment charges
Accounting for the impairment of financial assets
Impairment
The Barclays Bank UK Group is required to recognise expected credit losses (ECLs) based on unbiased forward-looking information for
all financial assets at amortised cost, lease receivables, debt financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income, loan
commitments and financial guarantee contracts. Intercompany exposures in the individual financial statements, including loan
commitments and financial guarantee contracts, are also in scope of IFRS 9 for ECL purposes.
At the reporting date, an allowance (or provision for loan commitments and financial guarantees) is required for the 12-month (Stage
1) ECLs. If the credit risk has significantly increased since initial recognition (Stage 2), or if the financial instrument is credit impaired
(Stage 3), an allowance (or provision) should be recognised for the lifetime ECLs.
The measurement of ECL is calculated using three main components: (i) probability of default (PD) (ii) loss given default (LGD) and (iii)
the exposure at default (EAD).
The 12-month and lifetime ECLs are calculated by multiplying the respective PD, LGD and the EAD. The 12-month and lifetime PDs
represent the PD occurring over the next 12 months and the remaining maturity of the instrument respectively. The EAD represents the
expected balance at default, taking into account the repayment of principal and interest from the balance sheet date to the default event
together with any expected drawdowns of committed facilities. The LGD represents expected losses on the EAD given the event of
default, taking into account, among other attributes, the mitigating effect of collateral value at the time it is expected to be realised and
the time value of money.
Expected credit loss measurement is based on the ability of borrowers to make payments as they fall due. The Barclays Bank UK Group
also considers sector-specific risks and whether additional adjustments are required in the measurement of ECL. Credit risk may be
impacted by climate considerations for certain sectors, such as oil and gas.
Determining a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition:
The Barclays Bank UK Group assesses when a significant increase in credit risk has occurred based on quantitative and qualitative
assessments. The credit risk of an exposure is considered to have significantly increased when:
i) Quantitative test
The annualised lifetime PD has increased by more than an agreed threshold relative to the equivalent at origination.
PD deterioration thresholds are defined as percentage increases, and are set at an origination score band and segment level to ensure
the test appropriately captures significant increases in credit risk at all risk levels. Generally, thresholds are inversely correlated to the
origination PD, i.e. as the origination PD increases, the threshold value reduces.
The assessment of the point at which a PD increase is deemed ‘significant’, is based upon analysis of the portfolio’s risk profile against a
common set of principles and performance metrics (consistent across both retail and wholesale businesses), incorporating expert credit
judgement where appropriate. Application of quantitative PD floors does not represent the use of the low credit risk exemption as
exposures can separately move into Stage 2 via the qualitative route described below.
Wholesale assets apply a 100% increase in PD and 0.2% PD floor to determine a significant increase in credit risk.
Retail assets apply bespoke relative increase and absolute PD thresholds based on product type and origination PD. Thresholds are
subject to maximums defined by Barclays Bank UK Group policy including absolute PD floor maximum of 0.3% and maximum relative
PD increase of 400% (applied to strongest credit quality customers only).
For existing/historical exposures where origination point scores or data are no longer available or do not represent a comparable
estimate of lifetime PD, a proxy origination score is defined, based upon:
▪ back-population of the approved lifetime PD score either to origination date or, where this is not feasible, as far back as possible
(subject to a data start point no later than 1 January 2015); or
▪ use of available historical account performance data and other customer information, to derive a comparable ‘proxy’ estimation of
origination PD.

[PAGE 190]

Notes to the financial statements
Financial performance and returns
ii) Qualitative test
This is relevant for accounts that meet the portfolio’s ‘high risk’ criteria and are subject to closer credit monitoring.
High risk customers may not be in arrears but either through an event or an observed behaviour exhibit credit distress. The definition
and assessment of high risk includes as wide a range of information as reasonably available, such as industry and Group-wide customer
level data, including but not limited to bureau scores and high consumer indebtedness index, wherever possible or relevant.
Whilst the high risk populations applied for IFRS 9 impairment purposes are aligned with risk management processes, they are also
regularly reviewed and validated to ensure that they capture any incremental segments where there is evidence of credit deterioration.
iii) Backstop criteria
This is relevant for accounts that are more than 30 calendar days past due. The 30 days past due criteria is a backstop rather than a
primary driver of moving exposures into Stage 2.
The criteria for determining a significant increase in credit risk for assets with bullet repayments follows the same principle as all other
assets, i.e. quantitative, qualitative and backstop tests are all applied.
Exposures will move back to Stage 1 once they no longer meet the criteria for a significant increase in credit risk. This means that, at a
minimum all payments must be up-to-date, the PD deterioration test is no longer met, the account is no longer classified as high risk,
and the customer has evidenced an ability to maintain future payments.
Exposures are only removed from Stage 3 and reassigned to Stage 2 once the original default trigger event no longer applies. Exposures
being removed from Stage 3 must no longer qualify as credit impaired, and:
a) the obligor will also have demonstrated consistently good payment behaviour over a 12-month period, by making all consecutive
contractual payments due and, for forborne exposures, the relevant EBA defined probationary period has also been successfully
completed or;
b) (for non-forborne exposures) the performance conditions are defined and approved within an appropriately sanctioned restructure
plan, including 12 months’ payment history have been met.
Management overlays and other exceptions to model outputs are applied only if consistent with the objective of identifying significant
increases in credit risk.
Forward-looking information
The measurement of ECL involves complexity and judgement, including estimation of PD, LGD, a range of unbiased future economic
scenarios, estimation of expected lives (where contractual life is not appropriate), and estimation of EAD and assessing significant
increases in credit risk.
Credit losses are the expected cash shortfalls from what is contractually due over the expected life of the financial instrument,
discounted at the original effective interest rate (EIR). ECLs are the unbiased probability-weighted credit losses determined by evaluating
a range of possible outcomes and considering future economic conditions.
Refer to the Measurement uncertainty and sensitivity analysis section on page 102 for further details.

[PAGE 191]

Notes to the financial statements
Financial performance and returns
Definition of default, credit impaired assets, write-offs, and interest income recognition
The definition of default for the purpose of determining ECLs, and for internal credit risk management purposes, has been aligned to the
Regulatory Capital CRR Article 178 definition of default, to maintain a consistent approach with IFRS 9 and associated regulatory
guidance. The Regulatory Capital CRR Article 178 definition of default considers indicators that the debtor is unlikely to pay, includes
exposures in forbearance and is no later than when the exposure is more than 90 days past due. When exposures are identified as credit
impaired at the time when they are purchased or originated, interest income is calculated on the carrying value net of the impairment
allowance.
An asset is considered credit impaired when one or more events occur that have a detrimental impact on the estimated future cash
flows of the financial asset. This comprises assets defined as defaulted and other individually assessed exposures where imminent
default or actual loss is identified.
Uncollectible loans are written off against the related allowance for loan impairment on completion of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s
internal processes and when all reasonably expected recoverable amounts have been collected. Subsequent recoveries of amounts
previously written off are credited to the income statement. The timing and extent of write-offs may involve some element of subjective
judgement. Nevertheless, a write-off will often be prompted by a specific event, such as the inception of insolvency proceedings or other
formal recovery action, which makes it possible to establish that some or the entire advance is beyond realistic prospect of recovery.
Purchased or originated credit impaired (POCI)
Purchased or originated credit impaired assets include a fixed pool of credit card and unsecured personal loan balances that were
purchased as part of the Tesco Bank acquisition at a deep discount to face value reflecting credit losses incurred from the point of
origination to the date of acquisition. Hence, POCI assets do not carry any impairment allowance on initial recognition. All changes in
lifetime expected credit losses subsequent to the assets’ initial recognition are recognised as an impairment charge. Over time, these
POCI assets will run off as the loans redeem, pay down or as loans are written off.
Accounting for purchased financial guarantee contracts
The Barclays Bank UK Group may enter into a financial guarantee contract which requires the issuer of such contract to reimburse the
Barclays Bank UK Group for a loss it incurs because a specified debtor fails to make payment when due in accordance with the terms of
a debt instrument. For these separate financial guarantee contracts, the Barclays Bank UK Group recognises a reimbursement asset
aligned with the recognition of the underlying ECLs, if it is considered virtually certain that a reimbursement would be received if the
specified debtor fails to make payment when due in accordance with the terms of the debt instrument.
Loan modifications and renegotiations that are not credit-impaired
When modification of a loan agreement occurs as a result of commercial restructuring activity rather than due to the credit risk of the
borrower, an assessment must be performed to determine whether the terms of the new agreement are substantially different from the
terms of the existing agreement. This assessment considers both the change in cash flows arising from the modified terms as well as
the change in overall instrument risk profile. In respect of payment holidays granted to borrowers which are not due to forbearance, if
the revised cash flows on a present value basis (based on the original EIR) are not substantially different from the original cash flows,
the loan is not considered to be substantially modified.
Where terms are substantially different, the existing loan will be derecognised and a new loan will be recognised at fair value, with any
difference in valuation recognised immediately within the income statement, subject to observability criteria.
Where terms are not substantially different, the loan carrying value will be adjusted to reflect the present value of modified cash flows
discounted at the original EIR, with any resulting gain or loss recognised immediately within the income statement as a modification
gain or loss.

[PAGE 192]

Notes to the financial statements
Financial performance and returns
Expected life
Lifetime ECLs must be measured over the expected life. This is restricted to the maximum contractual life and takes into account
expected prepayment, extension, call and similar options. The exceptions are certain revolving financial instruments, such as credit
cards and bank overdrafts, that include both a drawn and an undrawn component where the entity’s contractual ability to demand
repayment and cancel the undrawn commitment does not limit the entity’s exposure to credit losses to the contractual notice period.
For revolving facilities, expected life is analytically derived to reflect the behavioural life of the asset, i.e. the full period over which the
business expects to be exposed to credit risk. Behavioural life is typically based upon historical analysis of the average time to default,
closure or withdrawal of facility. Where data is insufficient or analysis inconclusive, an additional ‘maturity factor’ may be incorporated
to reflect the full estimated life of the exposures, based upon experienced judgement and/or peer analysis. Potential future
modifications of contracts are not taken into account when determining the expected life or EAD until they occur.
Discounting
ECLs are discounted at the EIR at initial recognition or an approximation thereof and consistent with income recognition. For loan
commitments the EIR is the rate that is expected to apply when the loan is drawn down and a financial asset is recognised. Issued
financial guarantee contracts are discounted at the risk-free rate. Lease receivables are discounted at the rate implicit in the lease. For
variable/floating rate financial assets, the spot rate at the reporting date is used and projections of changes in the variable rate over the
expected life are not made to estimate future interest cash flows or for discounting.
Modelling techniques
Currently, Internal Ratings-Based models are leveraged to calculate the point-in-time PD and LGD, which serve as key inputs to the IFRS
9 models. Thereafter, these inputs are extrapolated by the IFRS 9 models to create macroeconomic sensitive forecasts of PDs, LGDs and
in turn ECL.
Forbearance
A financial asset is subject to forbearance when it is modified due to the credit distress of the borrower. A modification made to the
terms of an asset due to forbearance will typically be assessed as a non-substantial modification that does not result in derecognition of
the original loan, except in circumstances where debt is exchanged for equity.
Both performing and non-performing forbearance assets are classified as Stage 3 except where it is established that the concession
granted has not resulted in diminished financial obligation and that no other regulatory definition of default criteria have been triggered,
in which case the asset is classified as Stage 2. The minimum probationary period for non-performing forbearance is 12 months and for
performing forbearance, 24 months. Hence, a minimum of 36 months is required for non-performing forbearance to move out of a
forborne state.
No financial instrument in forbearance can transfer back to Stage 1 until all of the Stage 2 thresholds are no longer met and can only
move out of Stage 3 when no longer credit impaired.

[PAGE 193]

Notes to the financial statements
Financial performance and returns
Critical accounting estimates and judgements
IFRS 9 impairment involves several important areas of judgement, including estimating forward-looking modelled parameters (PD, LGD
and EAD), developing a range of unbiased future economic scenarios, estimating expected lives and assessing significant increases in
credit risk, based on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s experience of managing credit risk. The determination of expected life is most
material for Barclays Bank UK Group’s credit card portfolios which is obtained via behavioural life analysis to materially capture the risk
of these facilities.
Within the retail and small businesses portfolios, which comprise large numbers of small homogeneous assets with similar risk
characteristics where credit scoring techniques are generally used, the impairment allowance is calculated using forward-looking
modelled parameters which are typically run at account level. There are many models in use, each tailored to a product, line of business
or customer category. Judgement and knowledge is needed in selecting the statistical methods to use when the models are developed
or revised. Management adjustments to impairment models, which contain an element of subjectivity, are applied in order to factor in
certain conditions or changes in policy that are not fully incorporated into the impairment models, or to reflect additional facts and
circumstances at the period end. Management adjustments are reviewed and incorporated into future model development where
appropriate.
For individually significant assets in Stage 3, impairment allowances are calculated on an individual basis and all relevant considerations
that have a bearing on the expected future cash flows across a range of economic scenarios are taken into account. These
considerations can be particularly subjective and can include the business prospects for the customer, the realisable value of collateral,
the Barclays Bank UK Group’s position relative to other claimants, the reliability of customer information and the likely cost and duration
of the work-out process. The level of the impairment allowance is the difference between the value of the discounted expected future
cash flows (discounted at the loan’s original effective interest rate), and its carrying amount. Furthermore, judgements change with
time as new information becomes available or as work-out strategies evolve, resulting in frequent revisions to the impairment allowance
as individual decisions are taken. Changes in these estimates would result in a change in the allowances and have a direct impact on the
impairment charge.
Temporary adjustments to calculated IFRS 9 impairment allowances may be applied in limited circumstances to account for situations
where known or expected risk factors or information have not been considered in the ECL assessment or modelling process. For further
information, please see page 100 in credit risk performance section.
Information about the potential impact of the physical and transition risks of climate change on borrowers is considered, taking into
account reasonable and supportable information to make accounting judgements and estimates. Climate change is inherently of a long-
term nature, with significant levels of uncertainty, and consequently requires judgement in determining the possible impact in the next
financial year, if any.
2024 2023
Impairment Impairment
charges/ Recoveries and charges/ Recoveries and
(releases) reimbursements1 Total2 (releases) reimbursements1 Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Loans and advances at amortised cost3 416 (52) 364 360 (33) 327
Off-balance sheet loan
commitments and financial
guarantee contracts (12) — (12) (19) — (19)
Total 404 (52) 352 341 (33) 308
Financial instruments at fair value through
other comprehensive income — — — — — —
Other financial asset measured at cost — — — — — —
Credit impairment charges /(releases) 404 (52) 352 341 (33) 308
Notes
1 Recoveries and reimbursements include £4m (2023: £5m) for reimbursements expected to be received under the arrangement where the Barclays Bank UK
Group has entered into financial guarantee contracts which provide credit protection over certain assets with third parties and cash recoveries of previously
written off amounts of £48m (2023: £28m).
2 Includes net impairment charge of £209m on the acquisition of Tesco Bank.
3 Includes Debt securities measured at amortised cost.
Write-offs that can still be subjected to enforcement activity
The contractual amount outstanding on financial assets that were written off during the year and that can still be subjected to enforcement
activity is £229m (2023: £186m). This is lower than the write-offs presented in the movement in gross exposures and impairment
allowance table due to assets sold during the year post write-offs and post write-off recoveries.
Modification of financial assets
Financial assets of £561m (2023: £513m), with a loss allowance measured at an amount equal to lifetime ECL, were subject to non-
substantial modifications during the year, with a resulting loss of £3m (2023: £2m). There is no material movement in financial assets
subject to non-substantial modification for which the loss allowance has changed to a 12-month ECL.

[PAGE 194]

Notes to the financial statements
Financial performance and returns
9 Tax
Accounting for income taxes
The Barclays Bank UK Group applies IAS 12 Income Taxes in accounting for taxes on income. Income tax payable on taxable profits
(current tax) is recognised as an expense in the periods in which the profits arise. Withholding taxes are also treated as income taxes.
Income tax recoverable on tax allowable losses is recognised as a current tax asset only to the extent that it is regarded as recoverable
by offsetting against taxable profits arising in the current or prior periods. Current tax is measured using tax rates and tax laws that have
been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible
temporary differences, and the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised. Deferred tax liabilities are
recognised for all taxable temporary differences except for the initial recognition of goodwill. Deferred tax is not recognised where the
temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at
the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss. Deferred tax is determined using tax rates and
legislation enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date which are expected to apply when the deferred tax asset is
realised or the deferred tax liability is settled. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are only offset when there is both a legal right to set-off
and an intention to settle on a net basis.
The Barclays Bank UK Group has adopted the International Tax Reform - Pillar Two Model Rules amendments to IAS 12, which were
issued on 23 May 2023 and approved by the UK Endorsement Board on 19 July 2023, and has applied the exception set out in
paragraph 4A in respect of recognising and disclosing information about deferred tax assets and liabilities related to Pillar Two income
taxes.
The Barclays Bank UK Group considers an uncertain tax position to exist when it considers that ultimately, in the future, the amount of
profit subject to tax may be greater than the amount initially reflected in the Barclays Bank UK Group’s tax returns.
A current tax provision is recognised when it is considered probable that the outcome of a review by a tax authority of an uncertain tax
position will alter the amount of cash tax due to, or from, a tax authority in the future. From recognition, the current tax provision is
then measured at the amount the Barclays Bank UK Group ultimately expects to pay the tax authority to resolve the position.
Deferred tax assets have been recognised based on business profit forecasts which included consideration for the current view of
climate impacts.
2024 2023
£m £m
Current tax charge/(credit)
Current year 923 662
Adjustments in respect of prior years 21 (100)
944 562
Deferred tax charge/(credit)
Current year 6 48
Adjustments in respect of prior years (10) 139
(4) 187
Tax charge 940 749

[PAGE 195]

Notes to the financial statements
Financial performance and returns
The table below shows the reconciliation between the actual tax charge and the tax charge that would result from applying the standard
UK corporation tax rate to the Barclays Bank UK Group’s profit before tax.
2024 2024 2023 2023
£m % £m %
Profit before tax 3,560 2,671
Tax charge based on the standard UK corporation tax rate of 25% 890 25.0% 628 23.5%
(2023: 23.5%)
Recurring items:
Banking surcharge1 and other items 99 2.8% 105 3.9%
Adjustments in respect of prior years 11 0.3% 39 1.5%
Non-deductible expenses 10 0.3% 8 0.3%
Impact of UK bank levy being non-deductible 9 0.2% 7 0.3%
Tax relief on holdings of inflation-linked government bonds (29) (0.8%) (20) (0.8%)
Tax relief on payments made under AT1 instruments (50) (1.4%) (42) (1.6%)
Non-recurring items:
Non-deductible provisions for UK customer redress — — (5) (0.2%)
Non-deductible loss on transfer of Wealth Management & Investments — — 29 1.1%
portfolio
Total tax charge 940 26.4 % 749 28.0%
Note
1 Banking surcharge includes the impact of the 3% UK banking surcharge rate on profits and tax adjustments relating to UK banking entities.
Factors influencing the effective tax rate
The effective tax rate of 26.4% is higher than the UK corporation tax rate of 25% primarily due to banking surcharge and other items.
These factors, which have each increased the effective tax rate, are partially offset by tax relief on payments made under AT1 instruments.
A gain of £558m has arisen on the acquisition of Tesco Bank. The acquisition is expected to generate a gain as a result of the consideration
payable for net assets being lower than their fair value. The Barclays Bank UK Group considers that the UK corporation tax treatment of
£475m of the day 1 gain is unclear. The Barclays Bank UK Group has treated the gain as taxable in preparing its 2024 financial statements
and intends to engage with HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) with a view to achieving clarity of treatment prior to filing Barclays Bank UK
PLC’s corporation tax return for the year ended 31 December 2024.
Barclays Bank UK Group’s future tax charge will be sensitive to the tax rates in force and changes to the tax rules in the UK.
The global minimum tax rate of 15% introduced by the OECD and G20 Inclusive Framework on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting and a UK
domestic minimum tax (the Pillar Two rules) became effective in the UK on 1 January 2024. However, no additional taxes resulting from the
implementation of Pillar Two have arisen in the Barclays Bank UK Group.
Tax in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income
Tax relating to each component of other comprehensive income can be found in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Tax included directly in equity
Tax included directly in equity comprises a £19m credit (2023: £2m credit) relating to share-based payments and deductible costs on
issuing other equity instruments.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities
The deferred tax asset on the balance sheet for Barclays Bank UK Group is £1,212m (2023: £1,296m) and for Barclays Bank UK PLC is
£1,203m (2023: £1,287m). All of these deferred tax assets are in the UK Tax Group and relate entirely to temporary differences. Business
profit forecasts indicate these amounts will be fully recovered.
Of the deferred tax asset of £1,212m (2023: £1,296m), an amount of £nil (2023: £nil) relates to entities which have suffered a loss in either
the current or prior year. This has been taken into account in reaching the above conclusion that these deferred tax assets will be fully
recovered in the future.

[PAGE 196]

Notes to the financial statements
Financial performance and returns
The table below shows movements on deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year. The amounts are different from those disclosed on
the balance sheet as they are presented before offsetting asset and liability balances where there is a legal right to set-off and an intention
to settle on a net basis.
Barclays Bank UK Group Fixed asset Loan Other
timing Cash flow impairment temporary
differences hedges allowance differences Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Assets 684 421 123 114 1,342
Liabilities — — — (46) (46)
As at 1 January 2024 684 421 123 68 1,296
Income statement 17 — (31) 18 4
Other comprehensive income and reserves — (112) — 24 (88)
Other movements — — — — —
701 309 92 110 1,212
Assets 701 309 92 125 1,227
Liabilities — — — (15) (15)
As at 31 December 2024 701 309 92 110 1,212
Assets 801 836 153 126 1,916
Liabilities — — — — —
As at 1 January 2023 801 836 153 126 1,916
Income statement (119) — (30) (38) (187)
Other comprehensive income and reserves — (415) — (27) (442)
Other movements 2 — — 7 9
684 421 123 68 1,296
Assets 684 421 123 114 1,342
Liabilities — — — (46) (46)
As at 31 December 2023 684 421 123 68 1,296

[PAGE 197]

Notes to the financial statements
Financial performance and returns
Barclays Bank UK PLC Fixed asset Loan Other
timing Cash flow impairment temporary
differences hedges allowance differences Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Assets 682 421 123 104 1,330
Liabilities — — — (43) (43)
As at 1 January 2024 682 421 123 61 1,287
Income statement 17 — (31) 18 4
Other comprehensive income and reserves — (112) — 24 (88)
Other movements — — — — —
699 309 92 103 1,203
Assets 699 309 92 114 1,214
Liabilities — — — (11) (11)
As at 31 December 2024 699 309 92 103 1,203
Assets 801 836 153 126 1,916
Liabilities — — — — —
As at 1 January 2023 801 836 153 126 1,916
Income statement (119) — (30) (38) (187)
Other comprehensive income and reserves — (415) — (27) (442)
Other movements — — — — —
682 421 123 61 1,287
Assets 682 421 123 104 1,330
Liabilities — — — (43) (43)
As at 31 December 2023 682 421 123 61 1,287
The amount of deferred tax asset expected to be recovered after more than 12 months for the Barclays Bank UK Group is £1,177m (2023:
£1,287m). The amount of deferred tax liability expected to be settled after more than 12 months for the Barclays Bank UK Group is £15m
(2023: £46m). These amounts are before offsetting asset and liability balances where there is a legal right to set-off and an intention to
settle on a net basis.
The amount of deferred tax asset expected to be recovered after more than 12 months for Barclays Bank UK PLC is £1,165m (2023:
£1,276m). The amount of deferred tax liability expected to be settled after more than 12 months for Barclays Bank UK PLC is £11m (2023:
£43m). These amounts are before offsetting asset and liability balances where there is a legal right to set-off and an intention to settle on a
net basis.
Unrecognised deferred tax
Tax losses and temporary differences
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of gross tax losses of £236m (2023: £270m) in Barclays Bank UK Group and
Barclays Bank UK PLC. These tax losses are comprised entirely of capital losses which can be carried forward indefinitely. Deferred tax
assets have not been recognised in respect of these items because it is not probable that future taxable gains will be available against which
they can be utilised.
Barclays Bank UK Group investments in subsidiaries, branches and associates
The amount of unrecognised deferred tax relating to temporary differences on investments in subsidiaries, branches and associates in both
Barclays Bank UK Group and Barclays Bank UK PLC is £nil (2023: £nil).
10 Dividends on ordinary shares
The 2024 financial statements include £975m (2023: £1,305m) of dividends paid on ordinary shares. This comprises 2024 interim dividend
of £225m (2023: £600m) and 2023 full year dividend £750m (2023: £705m). This results in a total dividend for the year of £1.93 (2023:
£2.58) per ordinary share.
The Directors have approved a 2024 full year dividend of £825m. The financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2024 do not
reflect this dividend, which will be accounted for in shareholders’ equity as an appropriation of retained profits in the year ending 31
December 2025.

[PAGE 198]

Notes to the financial statements
Assets and liabilities held at fair value
The notes included in this section focus on assets and liabilities the Barclays Bank UK Group holds and recognises at fair value. Detail
regarding the Barclays Bank UK Group’s approach to managing market risk can be found on page 64.
11 Trading portfolio
Accounting for trading portfolio assets and liabilities
All assets and liabilities held for trading purposes are held at fair value with gains and losses in the changes in fair value taken to the
income statement in net trading income / (expense) (Note 5).
Barclays Bank UK Group and PLC
2024 2023
£m £m
Debt securities and other eligible bills 242 43
Trading portfolio assets 242 43
Debt securities and other eligible bills (726) (908)
Trading portfolio liabilities (726) (908)
Trading debt securities (assets) are part of managed assets within treasury. Trading debt securities (liabilities) relate to short positions held
for hedging fair value loans and managed assets within treasury.
12 Financial assets at fair value through the income statement
Accounting for financial assets designated at fair value
Financial assets, other than those held for trading, are classified in this category if they are so irrevocably designated at inception and
the use of the designation removes or significantly reduces an accounting mismatch.
Subsequent changes in fair value for these instruments are recognised in the income statement in net investment income, except if
reporting it in trading income reduces an accounting mismatch.
The details on how the fair value amounts are derived for financial assets at fair value are described in Note 16.
Accounting for financial assets mandatorily at fair value
Financial assets that are held for trading are recognised at fair value through profit or loss. In addition, financial assets are held at fair
value through profit or loss if they do not contain contractual terms that give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are SPPI, or if the
financial asset is not held in a business model that is either (i) a business model to collect the contractual cash flows or (ii) a business
model that is achieved by both collecting contractual cash flows and selling.
Barclays Bank UK Group and PLC
2024 2023
£m £m
Loans and advances 1,543 1,715
Financial assets designated at fair value 1,543 1,715
Equity Securities — 1
Financial assets mandatorily at fair value — 1
Total 1,543 1,716
Credit risk of financial assets designated at fair value and related credit derivatives
The following table shows the maximum exposure to credit risk, the changes in fair value attributable to changes in credit risk, and the
cumulative changes in fair value since initial recognition for loans and advances.
Barclays Bank UK Group and PLC
Maximum exposure as at Changes in fair value during the Cumulative changes in fair value
31 December year ended from inception
2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Loans and advances designated at fair
value, attributable to credit risk 1,543 1,715 — — (4) (4)

[PAGE 199]

Notes to the financial statements
Assets and liabilities held at fair value
13 Derivative financial instruments
Accounting for derivatives
Derivative instruments are contracts whose value is derived from one or more underlying financial instruments or indices defined in the
contract. They include swaps, forward-rate agreements, futures, options and combinations of these instruments and primarily affect the
Barclays Bank UK Group’s net interest income, net trading income and derivative assets and liabilities. Notional amounts of the contracts
are not recorded on the balance sheet.
All derivative instruments are held at fair value through profit or loss, except for derivatives that are in a designated cash flow hedge
accounting relationship. Derivatives are classified as assets when their fair value is positive or as liabilities when their fair value is
negative.
Hedge accounting
The Barclays Bank UK Group applies the requirements of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement for hedge
accounting purposes. The Barclays Bank UK Group applies hedge accounting to represent the economic effects of its interest rate,
currency and contractually linked inflation risk management strategies. Where derivatives are held for risk management purposes, and
when transactions meet the required criteria for documentation and hedge effectiveness, the Barclays Bank UK Group applies fair value
hedge accounting and cash flow hedge accounting.
Fair value hedge accounting
Changes in fair value of derivatives that qualify and are designated as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together
with changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk. The fair value changes adjust the
carrying value of the hedged asset or liability held at amortised cost.
If hedge relationships no longer meet the criteria for hedge accounting, hedge accounting is discontinued. For fair value hedges of
interest rate risk, the fair value adjustment to the hedged item is amortised to the income statement over the period to maturity of the
previously designated hedge relationship using the effective interest method. If the hedged item is sold or repaid, the unamortised fair
value adjustment is recognised immediately in the income statement. For items classified as fair value through other comprehensive
income, the hedge accounting adjustment is included in other comprehensive income.
Cash flow hedge accounting
For qualifying cash flow hedges, the fair value gain or loss associated with the effective portion of the cash flow hedge is recognised
initially in other comprehensive income, and then recycled to the income statement in the periods when the hedged item will affect
profit or loss. Any ineffective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in the income statement immediately.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain
or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the hedged item is ultimately recognised in the income
statement. When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was recognised in equity is
immediately transferred to the income statement.
Total derivatives Barclays Bank UK Group Barclays Bank UK PLC
Notional Notional
contract Fair value contract Fair value
amount Assets Liabilities amount Assets Liabilities
£m £m £m £m £m £m
As at 31 December 2024
Total derivative assets/(liabilities) held for trading 589,637 155 (163) 590,131 155 (182)
Total derivative assets/(liabilities) held for risk
management 76,059 1,746 (137) 76,059 1,746 (137)
Derivative assets/(liabilities) 665,696 1,901 (300) 666,190 1,901 (319)
As at 31 December 2023
Total derivative assets/(liabilities) held for trading 619,446 249 (311) 619,927 249 (340)
Total derivative assets/(liabilities) held for risk
management 70,995 1,317 (87) 70,995 1,317 (87)
Derivative assets/(liabilities) 690,441 1,566 (398) 690,922 1,566 (427)
Further information on netting arrangements of derivative financial instruments can be found within Note 17.

[PAGE 200]

Notes to the financial statements
Assets and liabilities held at fair value
The fair values and notional amounts of derivatives held for trading are set out in the following table:
Derivatives held for trading1 Barclays Bank UK Group Barclays Bank UK PLC
Notional Fair value Notional Fair value
contract contract
amount Assets Liabilities amount Assets Liabilities
£m £m £m £m £m £m
As at 31 December 2024
Foreign exchange derivatives
OTC derivatives 9,953 115 (68) 9,831 107 (68)
Foreign exchange derivatives 9,953 115 (68) 9,831 107 (68)
Interest rate derivatives
OTC derivatives 4,918 3 (70) 4,918 3 (70)
Interest rate derivatives cleared by central
counterparty 574,766 37 (25) 574,766 37 (25)
Interest rate derivatives 579,684 40 (95) 579,684 40 (95)
Derivatives with subsidiaries — — — 616 8 (19)
Derivative assets/(liabilities) held for trading 589,637 155 (163) 590,131 155 (182)
Total OTC derivatives 14,871 118 (138) 14,749 110 (138)
Total derivatives cleared by central counterparty 574,766 37 (25) 574,766 37 (25)
Derivatives with subsidiaries — — — 616 8 (19)
Derivative assets/(liabilities) held for trading 589,637 155 (163) 590,131 155 (182)
As at 31 December 2023
Foreign exchange derivatives
OTC derivatives 10,468 190 (215) 10,346 175 (215)
Foreign exchange derivatives 10,468 190 (215) 10,346 175 (215)
Interest rate derivatives
OTC derivatives 4,387 6 (95) 4,387 6 (96)
Interest rate derivatives cleared by central
counterparty 604,591 53 (1) 604,591 53 (1)
Interest rate derivatives 608,978 59 (96) 608,978 59 (97)
Derivatives with subsidiaries — — — 603 15 (28)
Derivative assets/(liabilities) held for trading 619,446 249 (311) 619,927 249 (340)
Total OTC derivatives 14,855 196 (310) 14,733 181 (311)
Total derivatives cleared by central counterparty 604,591 53 (1) 604,591 53 (1)
Derivatives with subsidiaries — — — 603 15 (28)
Derivative assets/(liabilities) held for trading 619,446 249 (311) 619,927 249 (340)
Note
1 Derivatives held for trading mainly includes derivatives held as economic hedges to manage risk.

[PAGE 201]

Notes to the financial statements
Assets and liabilities held at fair value
The fair values and notional amounts of derivative instruments held for risk management are set out in the following table:
Derivatives held for risk management Barclays Bank UK Group Barclays Bank UK PLC
Notional Notional
contract Fair value contract Fair value
amount Assets Liabilities amount Assets Liabilities
£m £m £m £m £m £m
As at 31 December 2024
Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges
Currency swaps 8,637 1,727 (12) 8,637 1,727 (12)
Interest rate swaps — — — — — —
Interest rate derivatives cleared by central
counterparty 21,099 — — 21,099 — —
Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges 29,736 1,727 (12) 29,736 1,727 (12)
Derivatives designated as fair value hedges
Interest rate swaps 4,867 19 (125) 4,867 19 (125)
Interest rate derivatives cleared by central
counterparty 41,456 — — 41,456 — —
Derivatives designated as fair value hedges 46,323 19 (125) 46,323 19 (125)
Derivative assets/(liabilities) held for risk
management 76,059 1,746 (137) 76,059 1,746 (137)
Total OTC derivatives 13,504 1,746 (137) 13,504 1,746 (137)
Total derivatives cleared by central counterparty 62,555 — — 62,555 — —
Derivative assets/(liabilities) held for risk
management 76,059 1,746 (137) 76,059 1,746 (137)
As at 31 December 2023
Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges
Currency swaps 8,666 1,278 — 8,666 1,278 —
Interest rate swaps 647 — — 647 — —
Interest rate derivatives cleared by central
counterparty 27,498 — — 27,498 — —
Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges 36,811 1,278 — 36,811 1,278 —
Derivatives designated as fair value hedges
Interest rate swaps 4,040 39 (87) 4,040 39 (87)
Interest rate derivatives cleared by central
counterparty 30,144 — — 30,144 — —
Derivatives designated as fair value hedges 34,184 39 (87) 34,184 39 (87)
Derivative assets/(liabilities) held for risk
management 70,995 1,317 (87) 70,995 1,317 (87)
Total OTC derivatives 13,353 1,317 (87) 13,353 1,317 (87)
Total derivatives cleared by central counterparty 57,642 — — 57,642 — —
Derivative assets/(liabilities) held for risk
management 70,995 1,317 (87) 70,995 1,317 (87)
Hedge accounting
Hedge accounting is applied predominantly for the following risks:
▪ Interest rate risk – arises due to a mismatch between fixed interest rates and floating interest rates. Interest rate risk also includes
exposure to inflation risk for certain types of investments
▪ Currency risk – arises due to assets or liabilities being denominated in different currencies than the functional currency of the relevant
entity
▪ Contractually-linked inflation risk – arises from financial instruments with contractually specified inflation risk. The Barclays Bank UK
Group does not hedge inflation risk that arises from other activities
In order to hedge these risks, the Barclays Bank UK Group uses the following hedging instruments:
▪ Interest rate derivatives to swap interest rate exposures into either fixed or variable rates
▪ Currency derivatives to swap foreign currency exposure into the entity’s functional currency
▪ Inflation derivatives to swap inflation exposures into either fixed or variable interest rates

[PAGE 202]

Notes to the financial statements
Assets and liabilities held at fair value
In some cases, certain items which are economically hedged may be ineligible hedged items for the purposes of IAS 39, such as core
deposits and equity. In these instances, a proxy hedging solution can be utilised whereby portfolios of floating rate assets are designated as
eligible hedged items in cash flow hedges.
In some hedging relationships, the Barclays Bank UK Group designates risk components of hedged items as follows:
▪ Benchmark interest rate risk as a component of interest rate risk, such as the Risk Free Rate (RFR) component
▪ Inflation risk as a contractually specified component of a debt instrument
▪ Exchange rate risk for foreign currency financial assets or financial liabilities
▪ Components of cash flows of hedged items, for example certain interest payments for part of the life of an instrument
Using the benchmark interest rate risk results in other risks, such as credit risk and liquidity risk, being excluded from the hedge accounting
relationship.
In respect of many of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s hedge accounting relationships, the hedged item and hedging instrument change
frequently due to the dynamic nature of the risk management and hedge accounting strategy. The Barclays Bank UK Group applies hedge
accounting to dynamic scenarios, predominantly in relation to interest rate risk, with a combination of hedged items in order for its
financial statements to reflect as closely as possible the economic risk management undertaken. In some cases, if the hedge accounting
objective changes, the relevant hedge accounting relationship is de-designated and a de-designated relationship is replaced with a different
hedge accounting relationship.
The hedging instruments share the same risk exposures as the hedged items. Hedge effectiveness is determined with reference to
quantitative tests, predominantly regression testing, but to the extent hedging instruments are exposed to different risks than the hedged
items, this could result in hedge ineffectiveness or hedge accounting failures.
Sources of ineffectiveness include the following:
▪ Mismatches between the contractual terms of the hedged item and hedging instrument, including basis differences
▪ Changes in credit risk of the hedging instruments
▪ Cash flow hedges using external swaps with non-zero fair values

[PAGE 203]

Notes to the financial statements
Assets and liabilities held at fair value
Hedged items in fair value hedges
Accumulated fair value
adjustment included in carrying
Barclays Bank UK Group and PLC amount
Of which:
Accumulated
fair value
adjustment on Change in fair Hedge
items no value used as ineffectiveness
longer in a a basis to recognised in
Carrying hedge determine the income
amount Total relationship ineffectiveness statement1
Hedged item statement of financial position classification and risk
category £m £m £m £m £m
2024
Assets
Loans and advances at amortised cost
– Interest rate risk 1,684 (3,693) (1,785) (830) 18
Debt securities classified at amortised cost
– Interest rate risk 551 (2) — 12 3
– Inflation risk 1,752 (58) (39) 23 (11)
Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive
income
– Interest rate risk 17,778 (219) 29 6 50
– Inflation risk 5,498 (158) (54) (54) (13)
Total assets 27,263 (4,130) (1,849) (843) 47
Liabilities
Subordinated liabilities
- Interest rate risk (12,382) 564 103 38 (5)
Debt securities in issue
- Interest rate risk (973) 70 (7) (18) (18)
Total liabilities (13,355) 634 96 20 (23)
Total hedged items 13,908 (3,496) (1,753) (823) 24
2023
Assets
Loans and advances at amortised cost
– Interest rate risk 2,712 (3,040) (1,863) 79 12
Debt securities classified at amortised cost
– Inflation risk 1,659 (81) (60) (63) (8)
Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive
income
– Interest rate risk 9,553 (219) (8) 283 42
– Inflation risk 3,129 (151) (115) (89) (13)
Total assets 17,053 (3,491) (2,046) 210 33
Liabilities
Subordinated liabilities
– Interest rate risk (11,215) 525 151 (306) 3
Debt securities in issue
– Interest rate risk (1,000) 87 (9) (63) (14)
Total liabilities (12,215) 612 142 (369) (11)
Total hedged items 4,838 (2,879) (1,904) (159) 22
Note
1 Hedge ineffectiveness is recognised in net interest income.
For items classified as fair value through other comprehensive income, the hedge accounting adjustment is not included in the carrying
amount, but rather adjusts other comprehensive income.

[PAGE 204]

Notes to the financial statements
Assets and liabilities held at fair value
The following table shows the fair value hedging instruments which are carried on the balance sheet:
Carrying value
Change in fair value
used as a basis to
Derivative determine
Barclays Bank UK Group and PLC Derivative assets liabilities Nominal amount ineffectiveness
Hedge type Risk category £m £m £m £m
As at 31 December 2024
Fair value Interest rate risk — — 39,715 840
Inflation risk 19 (125) 6,608 7
Total 19 (125) 46,323 847
As at 31 December 2023
Fair value Interest rate risk — — 30,144 50
Inflation risk 39 (87) 4,040 131
Total 39 (87) 34,184 181
The following table profiles the expected notional values of current hedging instruments in future years:
2030 and
2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029 later
Barclays Bank UK Group and PLC £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
As at 31 December 2024
Fair value hedges of:
Interest rate risk (outstanding notional
39,715 36,384 30,406 25,632 19,771 14,622 10,344
amount)
Inflation risk (outstanding notional amount) 6,608 6,449 5,480 3,502 2,722 2,194 1,357
There are 1,235 (2023: 1,023) interest rate risk fair value hedges with an average fixed rate of 3.84% (2023: 2.81%) across the
relationships in Barclays Bank UK Group and Barclays Bank UK PLC, and 91 (2023: 57) inflation risk fair value hedges with an average rate
of 0.53% (2023: 0.52%) across the relationships.

[PAGE 205]

Notes to the financial statements
Assets and liabilities held at fair value
The following table shows hedged items in cash flow hedges:
Hedged items in cash flow hedges
Barclays Bank UK Group and PLC Balances remaining
Change in value of in cash flow Hedging (gains) or
hedged item used Balance in cash hedging reserve for losses Hedge
as the basis for flow hedging which hedge recognised in other ineffectiveness
recognising reserve for accounting is no comprehensive recognised in the
ineffectiveness continuing hedges longer applied income income statement1
Description of hedge relationship and
hedged risk £m £m £m £m £m
2024
Assets
Cash flow hedge of
Interest rate risk
Loans and advances at amortised cost 78 227 248 78 11
Cash and balances at central banks 111 113 374 111 5
Foreign exchange risk
Debt securities classified at amortised
(450) 142 — (450) —
cost
Liabilities
Cash flow hedge of
Foreign exchange risk
Subordinated liabilities 15 (3) — 15 —
Total Cash flow hedge (246) 479 622 (246) 16
2023
Cash flow hedge of:
Interest rate risk
Loans and advances at amortised cost (547) 185 324 (547) (6)
Cash and balances at central banks (307) 38 621 (307) 2
Foreign exchange risk
Debt securities classified at amortised
cost (1,088) 333 — (1,088) 1
Total cash flow hedge (1,942) 556 945 (1,942) (3)
Note
1 Hedge ineffectiveness is recognised in net interest income.
There are 43 (2023: 48) foreign exchange risk cash flow hedges with an average foreign exchange rate of 149.58 JPY: 1 GBP (2023: 147.95
JPY: 1 GBP) in Barclays Bank UK Group and Barclays Bank UK PLC, there are 2 (2023: none) with an average foreign exchange rate of 1.95
AUD: 1 GBP (2023: none), and 2 (2023: none) with an average foreign exchange rate of 1.12 CHF: 1 GBP (2023: none).
The following table shows the cash flow hedging instruments which are carried on the balance sheet:
Carrying value
Change in fair value
Derivative Derivative Nominal used as a basis to
Barclays Bank UK Group and PLC assets liabilities amount determine ineffectiveness
Hedge type Risk category £m £m £m £m
As at 31 December 2024
Cash flow Interest rate risk — — 21,099 (173)
Foreign exchange risk 1,727 (12) 8,637 435
Total 1,727 (12) 29,736 262
As at 31 December 2023
Cash flow Interest rate risk — — 28,145 850
Foreign exchange risk 1,278 — 8,666 1,089
Total 1,278 — 36,811 1,939

[PAGE 206]

Notes to the financial statements
Assets and liabilities held at fair value
The effect on the income statement and other comprehensive income of recycling amounts in respect of cash flow hedges is set out in the
following table:
2024 2023
Amount recycled from Amount recycled from
other comprehensive Amount recycled from other comprehensive Amount recycled from
income due to hedged other comprehensive income due to hedged other comprehensive
item affecting income income due to sale or item affecting income income due to sale or
statement disposal of investment statement disposal of investment
£m £m £m £m
Barclays Bank UK Group and PLC
Cash flow hedge of interest rate risk
Recycled to net interest income (394) — (358) —
Cash flow hedge of foreign exchange risk
Recycled to net trading income 240 — 820 —
A detailed reconciliation of the movements of the cash flow hedging reserve is as follows:
2024 2023
Barclays Bank UK Group and PLC Cash flow hedging reserve Cash flow hedging reserve
£m £m
Balance on 1 January (1,081) (2,146)
Hedging gains/(losses) for the year 246 1,942
Amounts reclassified in relation to cash flows affecting profit or loss 154 (462)
Tax (112) (415)
Balance on 31 December (793) (1,081)
14 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income
Accounting for financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI)
Financial assets that are debt instruments held in a business model that is achieved by both collecting contractual cash flows and selling,
and that contain contractual terms that give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are SPPI are measured at FVOCI. They are
subsequently remeasured at fair value and changes therein (except for those relating to impairment, interest income and foreign currency
exchange gains and losses) are recognised in other comprehensive income until the assets are sold. Interest (calculated using the
effective interest method) is recognised in the income statement in net interest income (Note 3). Upon disposal, the cumulative gain or
loss recognised in other comprehensive income is included in net investment income / (expense) (Note 6).
In determining whether the business model is achieved by both collecting contractual cash flows and selling financial assets, it is
determined that both collecting contractual cash flows and selling financial assets are integral to achieving the objective of the business
model. The Barclays Bank UK Group will consider past sales and expectations about future sales to establish if the business model is
achieved.
Barclays Bank UK Group and PLC
2024 2023
£m £m
Debt securities and other eligible bills 27,045 20,409
Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 27,045 20,409

[PAGE 207]

Notes to the financial statements
Assets and liabilities held at fair value
15 Financial liabilities designated at fair value
Accounting for liabilities designated at fair value through profit and loss
In accordance with IFRS 9, financial liabilities may be designated at fair value, with gains and losses taken to the income statement within
net trading income / (expense) (Note 5) and net investment income / (expense) (Note 6). Movements in own credit are reported through
other comprehensive income, unless the effects of changes in the liability's credit risk would create or enlarge an accounting mismatch in
profit and loss. In these scenarios, all gains and losses on that liability (including the effects of changes in the credit risk of the liability) are
presented in profit and loss. On derecognition of the financial liability no amount relating to own credit risk is recycled to the income
statement. The Barclays Bank UK Group has the ability to make the fair value designation when holding the instruments at fair value
reduces an accounting mismatch (caused by an offsetting liability or asset being held at fair value), or is managed by the Barclays Bank
UK Group on the basis of its fair value, or includes terms that have substantive derivative characteristics (Note 13).
The details on how the fair value amounts are arrived at for financial liabilities designated at fair value are described in Note 16.
Barclays Bank UK Group and PLC
2024 2023
Contractual Contractual
amount due amount due
Fair value on maturity Fair value on maturity
£m £m £m £m
Debt securities 2,848 2,849 196 196
Financial liabilities designated at fair value 2,848 2,849 196 196
16 Fair value of financial instruments
Accounting for financial assets and liabilities – fair value
Financial instruments that are held for trading are recognised at fair value through profit or loss. In addition, financial assets are held at
fair value through profit or loss if they do not contain contractual terms that give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are SPPI, or if
the financial asset is not held in a business model that is either (i) a business model to collect the contractual cash flows or (ii) a business
model that is achieved by both collecting contractual cash flows and selling. Subsequent changes in fair value for these instruments are
recognised in the income statement in net investment income, except if reporting it in trading income reduces an accounting mismatch.
Wherever possible, fair value is determined by reference to a quoted market price for that instrument. For many of the Barclays Bank UK
Group’s financial assets and liabilities for which quoted prices are not available, valuation models are used to estimate fair value. The
models calculate the expected cash flows under the terms of each specific contract and then discount these values back to a present
value. These models use as their basis independently sourced market inputs including, for example, interest rate yield curves and currency
rates. For financial liabilities measured at fair value, the carrying amount reflects the effect on fair value of changes in own credit spreads
derived from observable market data such as in primary issuance and redemption activity for structured notes.
On initial recognition, it is presumed that the transaction price is the fair value unless there is observable information available in an active
market to the contrary.
For valuations that have made use of unobservable inputs, the difference between the model valuation and the initial transaction price
(Day one profit) is recognised in profit or loss either: on a straight-line basis over the term of the transaction; or over the period until all
inputs will become observable where appropriate; or released in full when previously unobservable inputs become observable.
Various factors influence the availability of observable inputs, and these may vary from product to product and change over time. Factors
include the depth of activity in the relevant market, the type of product, whether the product is new and not widely traded in the
marketplace, the maturity of market modelling and the nature of the transaction (bespoke or generic). To the extent that valuation is
based on models or inputs that are not observable in the market, the determination of fair value can be more subjective, dependent on
the significance of the unobservable input to the overall valuation. Unobservable inputs are determined based on the best information
available, for example by reference to similar assets, similar maturities, or other analytical techniques.
The sensitivity of valuations used in the financial statements to possible changes in significant unobservable inputs is shown on page 210.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements
The valuation of financial instruments often involves a significant degree of judgement and complexity, in particular where valuation
models make use of unobservable inputs (Level 3 assets and liabilities). This note provides information on these instruments, including
the related unrealised gains and losses recognised in the period, a description of significant valuation techniques and unobservable inputs,
and a sensitivity analysis.
Climate-related risks are assumed to be included in the fair values of assets and liabilities traded in active markets. Within less active
markets, for counterparties and instruments identified as being more susceptible to climate change risk, an impact assessment was
performed through increasing their probability of default. The change in the valuation of the assets and liabilities from this assessment
was sufficiently immaterial to necessitate any amendment to the reported 2024-year end valuations.

[PAGE 208]

Notes to the financial statements
Assets and liabilities held at fair value
Valuation
Assets and liabilities are classified according to a hierarchy that reflects the observability of significant market inputs. The three levels of the
fair value hierarchy are defined below with judgement applied in determining the boundary between Level 2 and 3 classifications.
Quoted market prices – Level 1
Assets and liabilities are classified as Level 1 if their value is observable in an active market. Such instruments are valued by reference to
unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets where the quoted price is readily available, and the price
represents actual and regularly occurring market transactions. An active market is one in which transactions occur with sufficient volume
and frequency to provide pricing information on an ongoing basis.
Valuation technique using observable inputs – Level 2
Assets and liabilities classified as Level 2 have been valued using models whose inputs are observable either directly or indirectly.
Valuations based on observable inputs include assets and liabilities such as swaps and forwards which are valued using market standard
pricing techniques, and options that are commonly traded in markets where all the inputs to the market standard pricing models are
observable.
Valuation technique using significant unobservable inputs – Level 3
Assets and liabilities are classified as Level 3 if their valuation incorporates significant inputs that are not based on observable market data
(unobservable inputs). A valuation input is considered observable if it can be directly observed from transactions in an active market, or if
there is compelling external evidence demonstrating an executable exit price. Unobservable input levels are generally determined via
reference to observable inputs, historical observations or using other analytical techniques.
The following table shows Barclays Bank UK Group’s assets and liabilities that are held at fair value disaggregated by valuation technique
(fair value hierarchy) and balance sheet classification:
Assets and liabilities held at fair value
2024 2023
Valuation technique using Valuation technique using
Barclays Bank UK Group Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
As at 31 December £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Trading portfolio assets 180 62 — 242 43 — — 43
Financial assets at fair value through the
income statement — 79 1,464 1,543 — 87 1,629 1,716
Derivative financial assets — 1,901 — 1,901 — 1,566 — 1,566
Financial assets at fair value through other
comprehensive income 6,892 20,092 61 27,045 9,168 10,943 298 20,409
Total assets 7,072 22,134 1,525 30,731 9,211 12,596 1,927 23,734
Trading portfolio liabilities (661) (65) — (726) (894) (14) — (908)
Financial liabilities designated at fair value — (2,848) — (2,848) — (196) — (196)
Derivative financial liabilities — (300) — (300) — (398) — (398)
Total liabilities (661) (3,213) — (3,874) (894) (608) — (1,502)
Assets and liabilities held at fair value are materially similar between Barclays Bank UK Group and Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Assets and liabilities reclassified between Level 1 and Level 2
During the year ended 31 December 2024, there were no material transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 (year ended 31 December 2023:
there were no material transfers between Level 1 and Level 2).

[PAGE 209]

Notes to the financial statements
Assets and liabilities held at fair value
Level 3 movement analysis
The following table summarises the movements in the Level 3 balances during the year. Transfers have been reflected as if they had taken
place at the beginning of the year. Asset transfers between Level 2 and Level 3 are primarily due to 1) an increase or decrease in observable
market activity related to an input or 2) a change in the significance of the unobservable input, with assets and liabilities classified as Level
3 if an unobservable input is deemed significant.
Analysis of movements in Level 3 assets and liabilities
Total gains and (losses) Total gains
in the period recognised and
in the income statement (losses) in Transfers
As at the period As at
1 January Trading Other recognised 31 December
Barclays Bank UK 2024 Purchases Sales Issues Settlements income1 income in OCI In Out 2024
Group and PLC £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Loans 1,629 — — — (154) 3 — — 1 (15) 1,464
Financial assets at fair
value through the
income statement 1,629 — — — (154) 3 — — 1 (15) 1,464
Corporate debt 298 — — — — — — (1) 49 (285) 61
Assets at fair value
through other
comprehensive
income 298 — — — — — — (1) 49 (285) 61
Total 1,927 — — — (154) 3 — (1) 50 (300) 1,525
Total gains and (losses) Total gains
in the period recognised and
in the income statement (losses) in Transfers
As at the period As at
1 January Trading Other recognised 31 December
Barclays Bank UK 2023 Purchases Sales Issues Settlements income1 income in OCI In Out 2023
Group and PLC £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Loans 1,844 — — — (344) 140 — — — (11) 1,629
Financial assets at fair
value through the
income statement 1,844 — — — (344) 140 — — — (11) 1,629
Corporate debt — 193 — — — — — — 105 — 298
Assets at fair value
through other
comprehensive
income — 193 — — — — — — 105 — 298
Total 1,844 193 — — (344) 140 — — 105 (11) 1,927
Note
1 Trading income represents gains and losses on Level 3 financial assets which are offset by losses and gains on derivative hedges disclosed within Level 2.
Valuation technique and sensitivity analysis
Loans
Description: Largely made up of fixed rate loans, extended to counterparties in the Education, Social Housing and Local Authority sectors.
Valuation: Fixed rate loans are valued using models that discount expected future cash flows based on interest rates and loan spreads.
Observability: Within this loan population, the loan spread is generally unobservable. Unobservable loan spreads are determined by
incorporating funding costs, the level of comparable assets such as gilts, issuer credit quality and other factors.
Level 3 sensitivity: The sensitivity of fixed rate loans is calculated by applying a shift to loan spreads, aligned to the prudent valuation
framework for calculating market data uncertainty around an unobservable valuation input. The prudent valuation framework additionally
requires Barclays Bank UK PLC to be capitalised to 50% of the impact of such valuation uncertainty being realised in the income statement.
On a portfolio level, the sensitivity is equivalent to an average stress to the input loan spread of 19 bps.
Corporate Debt
Description: Primarily corporate bonds.
Valuation: Corporate bonds are valued using observable market prices sourced from broker quotes, inter-dealer prices or other reliable
pricing sources.
Observability: Prices for actively traded bonds are considered observable. Unobservable bond prices are generally determined by reference
to bond yields or CDS spreads for actively traded instruments issued by or referencing the same (or a similar) issuer.

[PAGE 210]

Notes to the financial statements
Assets and liabilities held at fair value
Unrealised gains and losses on Level 3 financial assets and liabilities
The following tables disclose the unrealised gains and losses recognised in the year arising on Level 3 financial assets and liabilities held at
year end.
Unrealised gains and (losses) recognised during the period on Level 3 assets and liabilities held at year end
Barclays Bank UK Group and PLC 2024 2023
Other Other
Income statement Income statement
compre- compre-
Trading Other hensive Trading Other hensive
income1 income income Total income1 income income Total
As at 31 December £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Financial assets at fair value through the
income statement 3 — — 3 140 — — 140
Assets at fair value through other
comprehensive income — — (1) (1) — — — —
Total 3 — (1) 2 140 — — 140
Note
1 Trading income represents gains and losses on Level 3 financial assets which are offset by losses and gains on derivative hedges disclosed within Level 2.
Significant unobservable inputs
The following table discloses the valuation techniques and significant unobservable inputs for material products recognised at fair value
and classified as Level 3 along with the range of values used for those significant unobservable inputs:
Significant unobservable inputs
Valuation Significant 2024 Range 2023 Range
technique(s) unobservable inputs Min Max Min Max Units1
Discounted cash
Loans flows Loan spread 35 291 40 307 bps
Corporate debt Comparable Pricing Comparable price 99 102 91 100 points
Note
1 The units used to disclose ranges for significant unobservable inputs are points and basis points. Points are a percentage of par; for example, 100 points
equals 100% of par. A basis point equals 1/100th of 1%; for example, 150 basis points equals 1.5%.
The following section describes the significant unobservable inputs identified in the table above, and the sensitivity of fair value
measurement of the instruments categorised as Level 3 assets or liabilities to increases in significant unobservable inputs. Where
sensitivities are described, the inverse relationship will also generally apply.
Where reliable interrelationships can be identified between significant unobservable inputs used in fair value measurement, a description of
those interrelationships is included below.
Loan Spread
Loan spreads typically represent the difference in yield between an instrument and a benchmark security or reference rate. Loan spreads
typically reflect credit quality, the level of comparable assets such as gilts and other factors, and form part of the yield used in a discounted
cash flow calculation.
The ESHLA portfolio primarily consists of long-dated fixed rate loans extended to counterparties in the UK Education, Social Housing and
Local Authority sectors. The loans are mostly categorised as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy due to their illiquid nature and the
significance of unobservable loan spreads to the valuation. Valuation uncertainty arises from the long-dated nature of the portfolio, the lack
of secondary market in the loans and the lack of observable loan spreads. The majority of ESHLA loans are to borrowers in heavily
regulated sectors that are considered low credit risk and have a history of near zero defaults since inception and where Barclays Bank UK
Group is often afforded a position as a secured creditor. While the overall loan spread range is from 35 bps to 291 bps (2023: 40bps to
307bps), the vast majority of spreads are concentrated towards the bottom end of this range, with 97% of the loan notional being valued
with spreads less than 200 bps for the current period.
In general, a significant increase in loan spreads in isolation will result in a fair value decrease for a loan.
Comparable Price
Comparable instrument prices are used in valuation by calculating an implied yield (or spread over a liquid benchmark) from the price of a
comparable observable instrument, then adjusting that yield (or spread) to account for relevant differences such as maturity or credit
quality. Alternatively, a price-to-price basis can be assumed between the comparable and unobservable instruments in order to establish a
value.
In general, a significant increase in comparable price in isolation will result in an increase in the price of the unobservable instrument.

[PAGE 211]

Notes to the financial statements
Assets and liabilities held at fair value
Sensitivity analysis of valuations using unobservable inputs (Relates to Level 3 Portfolios)
2024 2023
Unfavourable Unfavourable
Favourable changes changes Favourable changes changes
£m £m £m £m
Loans 76 (24) 67 (39)
Total1 76 (24) 67 (39)
Note:
1 Sensitivity analysis for corporate debt is not disclosed due to immateriality.
The effect of stressing unobservable inputs to a range of reasonably possible alternatives, alongside considering the impact of using
alternative models, would be to increase fair values by up to £76m (2023: £67m) or to decrease fair values by up to £24m (2023: £39m)
with substantially all the potential effect impacting profit and loss. The reduction in the unfavourable impact year-on-year is attributable to
market moves in interest rates. A methodology asymmetry in calculating the favourable and unfavourable changes in the sensitivity
analysis exists and is attributable to Investing and Funding costs contributing to the unfavourable side only. This can result in asymmetric
numerical outcomes for favourable and unfavourable sensitivities.
Portfolio exemptions
The Barclays Bank UK Group uses the portfolio exemption in IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement to measure the fair value of groups of
financial assets and liabilities. Financial instruments are measured using the price that would be received to sell a net long position (i.e. an
asset) for a particular risk exposure or to transfer a net short position (i.e. a liability) for a particular risk exposure in an orderly transaction
between market participants at the balance sheet date under current market conditions. Accordingly, the Barclays Bank UK Group
measures the fair value of the group of financial assets and liabilities consistently with how market participants would price the net risk
exposure at the measurement date.
Unrecognised gains as a result of the use of valuation models using unobservable inputs
The amount that has yet to be recognised in income that relates to the difference between the transaction price (the fair value at initial
recognition) and the amount that would have arisen had valuation models using unobservable inputs been used on initial recognition, less
amounts subsequently recognised, is £6m (2023: £6m) for financial instruments measured at fair value and £156m (2023: £174m) for
financial instruments carried at amortised cost. There are additions of £1m (2023: £nil) and amortisation and releases of £1m (2023: £4m)
for financial instruments measured at fair value and additions of £nil (2023: £nil) and amortisation and releases of £18m (2023: £17m) for
financial instruments measured at amortised cost.
Comparison of carrying amounts and fair values for assets and liabilities not held at fair value:
The following tables summarise the fair value of financial assets and liabilities measured at amortised cost on Barclays Bank UK Group’s
and Barclays Bank UK PLC’s balance sheet disaggregated by balance sheet classification:
Barclays Bank UK Group 2024 2023
Carrying Carrying
amount Fair value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 amount Fair value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3
As at 31 December £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Financial assets
Debt securities at amortised cost 17,983 17,954 1,034 16,920 — 17,794 17,721 — 17,721 —
Loans and advances at amortised cost 206,716 201,914 152 12,947 188,815 201,995 192,890 1 15,135 177,754
Reverse repurchase agreements and
other similar secured lending 5,894 5,894 — 5,894 — 3,567 3,567 — 3,567 —
Financial liabilities
Deposits at amortised cost (244,461) (244,466) (207,544) (34,661) (2,261) (241,224) (240,885) (216,258) (19,529) (5,098)
Repurchase agreements and other
similar secured borrowing (15,506) (15,506) — (15,506) — (15,265) (15,265) — (15,265) —
Debt securities in issue (2,619) (2,693) — (1,575) (1,118) (3,307) (3,400) — (2,238) (1,162)
Subordinated liabilities (13,512) (13,883) — (13,883) — (11,499) (11,847) — (11,847) —
Barclays Bank UK PLC1 2024 2023
Carrying Carrying
amount Fair value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 amount Fair value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3
As at 31 December £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Financial assets
Loans and advances at amortised
cost 207,102 202,300 113 13,372 188,815 202,547 193,442 1 15,687 177,754
Financial liabilities
Deposits at amortised cost (245,444) (245,380) (207,552) (35,567) (2,261) (241,874) (241,535) (216,258) (20,179) (5,098)
Debt securities in issue (2,065) (2,141) — (1,023) (1,118) (3,307) (3,400) — (2,238) (1,162)
Note
1 Balance sheet classifications where underlying financial instruments are materially similar to Barclays Bank UK Group have not been re-presented.

[PAGE 212]

Notes to the financial statements
Assets and liabilities held at fair value
The fair value is an estimate of the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction
between market participants at the measurement date. As a wide range of valuation techniques are available, it may not be appropriate to
directly compare this fair value information to independent market sources or other financial institutions. Different valuation
methodologies and assumptions can have a significant impact on fair values which are based on unobservable inputs.
Financial assets
Debt Securities at amortised cost
Debt Securities at amortised cost are valued using observable market prices sourced from broker quotes, inter-dealer prices or other
reliable pricing sources. Prices for actively traded bonds are considered observable. Where market data for the underlying bond is
unavailable, a number of proxy/extrapolation techniques are employed to determine the appropriate fair value.
Loans and advances at amortised cost
The fair value of loans and advances, for the purpose of this disclosure, is derived from discounting expected cash flows in a way that
reflects the current market price for lending to issuers of similar credit quality. Where market data or credit information on the underlying
borrowers is unavailable, a number of proxy/extrapolation techniques are employed to determine the appropriate discount rates.
Reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending
The fair value of reverse repurchase agreements approximates carrying amount as these balances are generally short dated and fully
collateralised.
Financial liabilities
Deposits at amortised cost
In many cases, the fair value disclosed approximates carrying value because the instruments are short-term in nature or have interest rates
that reprice frequently, such as customer accounts, other deposits, and short-term debt securities.
The fair value for deposits with longer-term maturities, mainly time deposits, are estimated using discounted cash flows applying either
market rates or current rates for deposits of similar remaining maturities. Consequently, the fair value discount is minimal.
Repurchase agreements and other similar secured borrowing
The fair value of repurchase agreements approximates carrying amounts as these balances are generally short dated.
Debt securities in issue
Fair values of other debt securities in issue are based on quoted prices where available or, where the instruments are short dated, carrying
amount approximates fair value.
Subordinated liabilities
Fair values for dated and undated convertible and non-convertible loan capital are based on quoted market rates for the issuer concerned
or issuers with similar terms and conditions.
17 Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities
The Barclays Bank UK Group reports financial assets and financial liabilities on a net basis on the balance sheet only if there is a legally
enforceable right to set-off the recognised amounts and there is intention to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the
liability simultaneously. The following table shows the impact of netting arrangements on:
▪ All financial assets and liabilities that are reported net on the balance sheet.
▪ All derivative financial instruments and reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending and borrowing
agreements that are subject to enforceable master netting arrangements or similar agreements, but do not qualify for balance sheet
netting.

[PAGE 213]

Notes to the financial statements
Assets and liabilities held at fair value
The ‘Net amounts’ presented are not intended to represent the Barclays Bank UK Group’s actual exposure to credit risk, as a variety of
credit mitigation strategies are employed in addition to netting and collateral arrangements.
Barclays Bank UK Group Amounts subject to enforceable netting arrangements
Effects of offsetting on-balance sheet Related amounts not offset
Net amounts Amounts not
reported on subject to
the enforceable Balance
Gross Amounts balance Financial Financial netting sheet
amounts offset1 sheet instruments collateral2 Net amount arrangements3 total4
As at 31 December 2024 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Derivative financial assets 1,901 — 1,901 (211) (1,688) 2 — 1,901
Reverse repurchase
agreements and other similar
secured lending5 6,049 (155) 5,894 — (5,894) — — 5,894
Total assets 7,950 (155) 7,795 (211) (7,582) 2 — 7,795
Derivative financial liabilities (291) — (291) 211 80 — (9) (300)
Repurchase agreements and
other similar secured
borrowing5 (478) 155 (323) — 323 — (15,183) (15,506)
Total liabilities (769) 155 (614) 211 403 — (15,192) (15,806)
As at 31 December 2023
Derivative financial assets 1,566 — 1,566 (232) (1,332) 2 — 1,566
Reverse repurchase
agreements and other similar
secured lending5 5,168 (1,601) 3,567 — (3,567) — — 3,567
Total assets 6,734 (1,601) 5,133 (232) (4,899) 2 — 5,133
Derivative financial liabilities (384) — (384) 232 152 — (14) (398)
Repurchase agreements and
other similar secured
borrowing5 (1,669) 1,601 (68) — 68 — (15,197) (15,265)
Total liabilities (2,053) 1,601 (452) 232 220 — (15,211) (15,663)
Notes
1 No other significant recognised financial assets and liabilities were offset in the balance sheet. Therefore, the only balance sheet categories necessary for
inclusion in the table are those shown above.
2 Financial collateral of £1,688m (2023: £1,332m) was received in respect of derivative assets, including £1,688m (2023: £1,280m) of cash collateral and £nil
(2023: £52m) of non-cash collateral. Financial cash collateral of £80m (2023: £152m) was placed in respect of derivative liabilities. The collateral amounts
are limited to net balance sheet exposure so as to not include over-collateralisation.
3 This column includes contractual rights of set-off that are subject to uncertainty under the laws of the relevant jurisdiction.
4 The balance sheet total is the sum of ‘Net amounts reported on the balance sheet’ that are subject to enforceable netting arrangements and ‘Amounts not
subject to enforceable netting arrangements’.
5 Repurchase and other similar secured lending and Reverse Repurchase and other similar secured lending held at amortised cost.
Derivative assets and liabilities
The ‘Financial instruments’ column identifies financial assets and liabilities that are subject to set-off under netting agreements, such as the
ISDA Master Agreement or derivative exchange or clearing counterparty agreements, whereby all outstanding transactions with the same
counterparty can be offset and close-out netting applied across all outstanding transactions covered by the agreements if an event of
default or other predetermined events occur.
Financial collateral refers to cash and non-cash collateral obtained, typically daily or weekly, to cover the net exposure between
counterparties by enabling the collateral to be realised in an event of default or if other predetermined events occur.
Repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending and borrowing
The ‘Financial instruments’ column identifies financial assets and liabilities that are subject to set-off under netting agreements, such as
Global Master Repurchase Agreements and Global Master Securities Lending Agreements, whereby all outstanding transactions with the
same counterparty can be offset and close-out netting applied across all outstanding transactions covered by the agreements if an event of
default or other predetermined events occur.
Financial collateral typically comprises highly liquid securities which are legally transferred and can be liquidated in the event of
counterparty default.

[PAGE 214]

Notes to the financial statements
Assets and liabilities held at fair value
These offsetting and collateral arrangements and other credit risk mitigation strategies used by Barclays Bank UK are further explained in
the Credit risk mitigation section on page 63.
Barclays Bank UK PLC Amounts subject to enforceable netting arrangements
Effects of offsetting on-balance sheet Related amounts not offset
Net amounts Amounts not
reported on subject to
the enforceable Balance
Gross Amounts balance Financial Financial netting sheet
amounts offset1 sheet instruments collateral2 Net amount arrangements3 total4
As at 31 December 2024 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Derivative financial assets 1,901 — 1,901 (211) (1,680) 10 — 1,901
Reverse repurchase
agreements and other similar
secured lending5 6,049 (155) 5,894 — (5,894) — — 5,894
Total assets 7,950 (155) 7,795 (211) (7,574) 10 — 7,795
Derivative financial liabilities (310) — (310) 211 80 (19) (9) (319)
Repurchase agreements and
other similar secured
borrowing5 (478) 155 (323) — 323 — (15,183) (15,506)
Total liabilities (788) 155 (633) 211 403 (19) (15,192) (15,825)
As at 31 December 2023
Derivative financial assets 1,566 — 1,566 (232) (1,317) 17 — 1,566
Reverse repurchase
agreements and other similar
secured lending5 5,168 (1,601) 3,567 — (3,567) — — 3,567
Total assets 6,734 (1,601) 5,133 (232) (4,884) 17 — 5,133
Derivative financial liabilities (412) — (412) 232 152 (28) (15) (427)
Repurchase agreements and
other similar secured
borrowing5 (1,669) 1,601 (68) — 68 — (15,197) (15,265)
Total liabilities (2,081) 1,601 (480) 232 220 (28) (15,212) (15,692)
Notes
1 No other significant recognised financial assets and liabilities were offset in the balance sheet. Therefore, the only balance sheet categories necessary for
inclusion in the table are those shown above.
2 Financial cash collateral of £1,680m (2023: £1,317m) was received in respect of derivative assets, including £1,680m (2023: £1,265m) of cash collateral and
£nil (2023: £52m) of non-cash collateral. Financial cash collateral of £80m (2023: £152m) was placed in respect of derivative liabilities. The collateral
amounts are limited to net balance sheet exposure so as to not include over-collateralisation.
3 This column includes contractual rights of set-off that are subject to uncertainty under the laws of the relevant jurisdiction.
4 The balance sheet total is the sum of ‘Net amounts reported on the balance sheet’ that are subject to enforceable netting arrangements and ‘Amounts not
subject to enforceable netting arrangements’.
5 Repurchase and other similar secured lending and Reverse Repurchase and other similar secured lending held at amortised cost.

[PAGE 215]

Notes to the financial statements
Assets at amortised cost and other investments
The notes included in this section focus on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s property, plant and equipment, leases and goodwill and
intangible assets. Details regarding the Barclays Bank UK Group’s liquidity and capital position can be found on pages 136 to 146.
18 Property, plant and equipment
Accounting for property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, which includes direct and incremental acquisition costs less accumulated depreciation
and provisions for impairment, if required. Subsequent costs are capitalised if these result in enhancement of the asset.
Depreciation is provided on the depreciable amount of items of property, plant and equipment on a straight-line basis over their
estimated useful economic lives. Depreciation rates, methods and the residual values underlying the calculation of depreciation of items
of property, plant and equipment are kept under review to take account of any change in circumstances including consideration on future
Climate and Sustainability investments.
The Barclays Bank UK Group and Barclays Bank UK PLC uses the following annual rates in calculating depreciation:
Annual rates in calculating depreciation Depreciation rate
Freehold land Not depreciated
Freehold buildings 2%-3.3%
Leasehold property Over the remaining life of the lease
Costs of adaptation of freehold and leasehold property 6%-10%
Equipment installed in freehold and leasehold property 6%-10%
Computers and similar equipment 17%-33%
Fixtures and fittings and other equipment 9%-20%
Barclays Bank UK Group
Property Equipment Right of use assets1 Total
£m £m £m £m
Cost
As at 1 January 2024 586 1 438 1,025
Additions 27 3 25 55
Disposals2 (113) — (79) (192)
Exchange and other movements — — (3) (3)
As at 31 December 2024 500 4 381 885
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
As at 1 January 2024 (440) — (324) (764)
Disposals2 111 — 77 188
Depreciation charge (34) — (37) (71)
Impairment charge (1) — (14) (15)
Exchange and other movements 1 — 15 16
As at 31 December 2024 (363) — (283) (646)
Net book value 137 4 98 239
Cost
As at 1 January 2023 658 — 466 1,124
Additions 25 1 3 29
Disposals2 (97) — (29) (126)
Exchange and other movements — — (2) (2)
As at 31 December 2023 586 1 438 1,025
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
As at 1 January 2023 (455) — (287) (742)
Disposals2 92 — 28 120
Depreciation charge (44) — (50) (94)
Impairment charge (33) — (14) (47)
Exchange and other movements — — (1) (1)
As at 31 December 2023 (440) — (324) (764)
Net book value 146 1 114 261

[PAGE 216]

Notes to the financial statements
Assets at amortised cost and other investments
Barclays Bank UK PLC
Property Equipment Right of use assets1 Total
£m £m £m £m
Cost
As at 1 January 2024 583 — 435 1,018
Additions 25 3 25 53
Disposals2 (113) — (79) (192)
Exchange and other movements — — (3) (3)
As at 31 December 2024 495 3 378 876
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
As at 1 January 2024 (437) — (322) (759)
Disposals2 111 — 77 188
Depreciation charge (33) — (36) (69)
Impairment charge (1) — (14) (15)
Exchange and other movements — — 15 15
As at 31 December 2024 (360) — (280) (640)
Net book value 135 3 98 236
Cost
As at 1 January 2023 658 — 466 1,124
Additions 22 — 1 23
Disposals2 (97) — (29) (126)
Exchange and other movements — — (3) (3)
As at 31 December 2023 583 — 435 1,018
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
As at 1 January 2023 (455) — (287) (742)
Disposals2 94 — 28 122
Depreciation charge (44) — (49) (93)
Impairment charge (33) — (14) (47)
Exchange and other movements 1 — — 1
As at 31 December 2023 (437) — (322) (759)
Net book value 146 — 113 259
Notes
1 Right of use (ROU) asset balances relate to Property Leases under IFRS 16. Refer Note 19 for further details.
2 Disposals primarily pertain to fully depreciated assets which are not in use.
There is no significant income from property rentals in 2024 (2023: £nil) in Barclays Bank UK Group and Barclays Bank UK PLC.
19 Leases
Accounting for leases
When the Barclays Bank UK Group and Barclays Bank UK PLC are the lessee, they are required to recognise both:
• a lease liability, measured at the present value of remaining cash flows on the lease
• a right of use (ROU) asset, measured at the amount of the initial measurement of the lease liability, plus any lease payments made prior
to commencement date, initial direct costs, and estimated costs of restoring the underlying asset to the condition required by the lease,
less any lease incentives received.
Subsequently the lease liability will increase for the accrual of interest, resulting in a constant rate of return throughout the life of the
lease, and reduce when payments are made. The right of use asset will amortise to the income statement over the life of the lease.
On the balance sheet, the ROU assets are included within property, plant and equipment and the lease liabilities are included within other
liabilities.
The Barclays Bank UK Group and Barclays Bank UK PLC apply the recognition exemption in IFRS 16 for leases with a term not exceeding
12 months. For these leases the lease payments are recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term unless another
systematic basis is more appropriate.
As a lessee
The Barclays Bank UK Group and Barclays Bank UK PLC lease various offices, branches and other premises under non-cancellable lease
arrangements to meet their operational business requirements. In some instances, Barclays Bank UK Group and Barclays Bank UK PLC will
sublease property to third parties when it is no longer needed to meet business requirements. Currently, Barclays Bank UK Group and
Barclays Bank UK PLC do not have any material subleasing arrangements.
ROU asset balances relate to property leases only. Refer to Note 18 for the carrying amount of ROU assets.

[PAGE 217]

Notes to the financial statements
Assets at amortised cost and other investments
The Barclays Bank UK Group and Barclays Bank UK PLC recognised a total expense of £1m (2023: £1m) for short term leases during the
year. The portfolio of short term leases to which Barclays Bank UK Group and Barclays Bank UK PLC are exposed at the end of the year is
not dissimilar to the expenses recognised in the year.
Lease liabilities Barclays Bank UK Group and PLC
2024 2023
£m £m
As at 1 January 162 224
Interest 6 8
New leases 22 2
Disposals (17) (6)
Cash payments (53) (63)
Exchange and other movements 12 (3)
As at 31 December (see Note 21) 132 162
Note: There is no significant difference in the lease portfolio for Barclays Bank UK Group and Barclays Bank UK PLC.
The table below sets out a maturity analysis of undiscounted lease liabilities, showing the lease payments after the reporting date.
Undiscounted lease liabilities maturity analysis Barclays Bank UK Group and PLC
2024 2023
£m £m
Not more than one year 45 49
One to two years 32 44
Two to three years 21 28
Three to four years 14 16
Four to five years 10 10
Five to ten years 23 26
Greater than ten years 14 22
Total undiscounted lease liabilities as at 31 December 159 195
In addition to the cash flows identified above, Barclays Bank UK Group and Barclays Bank UK PLC are exposed to:
▪ Variable lease payments: This variability will typically arise from either inflation index instruments or market based pricing adjustments.
Currently, 173 leases (2023: 435 leases) out of the total 453 leases (2023: 593 leases) have variable lease payment terms based on
market based pricing adjustments. Of the gross cash flows identified above, £97m (2023: £156m) is attributable to leases with some
degree of variability predominantly linked to market based pricing adjustments.
▪ Extension and termination options: The table above represents Barclays Bank UK Group’s and Barclays Bank UK PLC’s best estimate of
future cash outflows for leases, including assumptions regarding the exercising of contractual extension and termination options. The
above gross cash flows have been reduced by £1m (2023: £4m) for leases where it is highly expected to exercise an early termination
option. The above gross cash flows have been increased by £1m (2023: £nil) for leases where it is highly expected to exercise an
extension option.
The Barclays Bank UK Group and Barclays Bank UK PLC do not have any restrictions or covenants imposed by the lessor on its property
leases which restrict its businesses.

[PAGE 218]

Notes to the financial statements
Assets at amortised cost and other investments
20 Goodwill and intangible assets
Accounting for goodwill and intangible assets
Goodwill
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries represents the excess of the fair value of the purchase consideration over the fair value
of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s share of the assets acquired and the liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed on the date of the
acquisition.
Goodwill is reviewed annually for impairment, or more frequently when there are indications that impairment may have occurred. The
test involves comparing the carrying value of a cash generating unit (CGU) including goodwill with the present value of the pre-tax cash
flows, discounted at a rate of interest that reflects the inherent risks, of the CGU to which the goodwill relates, or the CGU’s fair value if
this is higher.
Intangible assets
Intangible assets are initially recognised when they are separable or arise from contractual or other legal rights, the cost can be measured
reliably and, in the case of intangible assets not acquired in a business combination, where it is probable that future economic benefits
attributable to the assets will flow from their use.
For internally generated intangible assets, only costs incurred during the development phase are capitalised. Expenditure in the research
phase is expensed when it is incurred.
Intangible assets are stated at cost (which is, in the case of assets acquired in a business combination, the acquisition date fair value) less
accumulated amortisation and provisions for impairment, if any, and are amortised over their useful lives in a manner that reflects the
pattern to which they contribute to future cash flows, generally using the amortisation periods set out below:
Annual rates in calculating amortisation Amortisation period
Goodwill Not amortised
Other Software 12 months to 6 years
Core Deposits 12 months to 5 years
Brand 12 months to 10 years
Customer lists 12 months to 25 years
Licences and other 12 months to 25 years
Intangible assets are reviewed for impairment when there are indications that impairment may have occurred. Intangible assets not yet
available for use are reviewed annually for impairment.

[PAGE 219]

Notes to the financial statements
Assets at amortised cost and other investments
Barclays Bank UK Group
Other Core Customer Licences
Goodwill software deposits lists Brand and other Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cost
As at 1 January 2024 3,837 30 — 90 7 2 3,966
Additions1 — 4 17 66 — — 87
Disposals2 — — — (90) — — (90)
Exchange and other adjustments — — — — — — —
As at 31 December 2024 3,837 34 17 66 7 2 3,963
Accumulated amortisation and impairment
As at 1 January 2024 — (5) — (90) (1) — (96)
Disposals2 — — — 90 — — 90
Amortisation charge — (5) (1) (2) (1) — (9)
Exchange and other adjustments — — — — — — —
As at 31 December 2024 — (10) (1) (2) (2) — (15)
Net book value 3,837 24 16 64 5 2 3,948
Cost
As at 1 January 2023 3,526 — — 90 — 2 3,618
Additions 311 30 — — 7 — 348
Disposals — — — — — — —
Exchange and other adjustments — — — — — — —
As at 31 December 2023 3,837 30 — 90 7 2 3,966
Accumulated amortisation and impairment
As at 1 January 2023 — — — (90) — — (90)
Disposals — — — — — — —
Amortisation charge — (4) — — (1) — (5)
Exchange and other adjustments — (1) — — — — (1)
As at 31 December 2023 — (5) — (90) (1) — (96)
Net book value 3,837 25 — — 6 2 3,870

[PAGE 220]

Notes to the financial statements
Assets at amortised cost and other investments
Barclays Bank UK PLC
Other Core Customer Licences
Goodwill software deposits lists Brand and other Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cost
As at 1 January 2024 3,378 — — 90 — 2 3,470
Additions1 — — 17 66 — — 83
Disposals2 — — — (90) — — (90)
Exchange and other adjustments — — — — — — —
As at 31 December 2024 3,378 — 17 66 — 2 3,463
Accumulated amortisation and impairment
As at 1 January 2024 — — — (90) — — (90)
Disposals2 — — — 90 — — 90
Amortisation charge — — (1) (2) — — (3)
Exchange and other adjustments — — — — — — —
As at 31 December 2024 — — (1) (2) — — (3)
Net book value 3,378 — 16 64 — 2 3,460
Cost
As at 1 January 2023 3,378 — — 90 — 2 3,470
Additions — — — — — — —
Disposals — — — — — — —
Exchange and other adjustments — — — — — — —
As at 31 December 2023 3,378 — — 90 — 2 3,470
Accumulated amortisation and impairment
As at 1 January 2023 — — — (90) — — (90)
Disposals — — — — — — —
Amortisation charge — — — — — — —
Exchange and other adjustments — — — — — — —
As at 31 December 2023 — — — (90) — — (90)
Net book value 3,378 — — — — 2 3,380
Notes
1 Additions in Core deposits and Customer lists are related to the acquisition of Tesco Bank
2 Disposals pertain to fully amortised assets which are not in use.
As part of the Barclays PLC Group strategy, internally generated software and other purchased software are held in Barclays Execution
Services Limited. Barclays Bank UK Group receives the required services from Barclays Execution Services Limited, which are charged for on
a cost plus basis.

[PAGE 221]

Notes to the financial statements
Assets at amortised cost and other investments
Critical accounting estimates and judgements
Goodwill
Testing goodwill for impairment involves a significant amount of judgement. Goodwill is allocated to CGUs for the purpose of
impairment testing. The review of goodwill for impairment involves calculating a value in use (VIU) valuation which is compared to the
carrying value of a CGU associated with the goodwill to determine whether any impairment has occurred. This includes the
identification of independent CGUs across the organisation and the allocation of goodwill to those CGUs.
The calculation of a value in use contains a high degree of uncertainty in estimating the future cash flows and the rates used to discount
them. Key judgements include determining the carrying value of the CGU, the cash flows and discount rates used in the calculation.
• The cash flow forecasts used by management involve judgement and are based upon a view of the future prospects of the business
and market conditions at the point in time the assessment is prepared, including the potential effect of climate change. The
estimation of cash flows is sensitive to the periods for which detailed forecasts are available and to assumptions regarding long-
term sustainable cash flows.
• The discount rates applied to the future cash flows also involve judgement. The discount rates used are compared to market
participants to ensure that they are appropriate and based on an estimated cost of equity for each CGU.
• The choice of a terminal growth rate used to determine the present value of the future cash flows of the CGUs is also a judgement
that can impact the outcome of the assessment. The terminal growth rate and discount rates used may vary due to external market
rates and economic conditions that are beyond management’s control, including the potential effect of climate change.
Further details of some of the key judgements are set out below.
2024 impairment review
The 2024 impairment review was performed during Q4 2024, with the approach and results of this analysis set out below.
Determining the carrying value of CGUs
The carrying value for each CGU is the sum of the tangible equity, goodwill and intangible asset balances associated with that CGU.
The Barclays Bank UK Group manages the assets and liabilities of its CGUs with reference to the tangible equity of the respective
businesses. That tangible equity is derived from the level of risk weighted assets (RWAs) and capital required to be deployed in the CGU
and therefore reflects its relative risk, as well as the level of capital that management considers a market participant would be required to
hold and retain to support business growth.
Goodwill is initially allocated to CGUs or groups of CGUs that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the acquisition that generated it.
Goodwill is only reallocated if there is a change in its use or when reporting structures are altered in a way that changes the composition of
one or more cash generating units to which goodwill has been allocated. The goodwill allocated to the Barclays Bank UK Group’s CGUs is
unchanged in the year. The intangible asset balances are allocated to the CGUs based upon their expected usage of these assets.
Cash flows
The five-year cash flows used in the value in use calculation are based on the formally agreed medium-term plans approved by the Board.
These are prepared using macroeconomic assumptions which management considers reasonable and supportable, and reflect business
agreed initiatives for the forecast period. The macroeconomic assumptions underpinning the medium-term plan were determined
during 2024 and management has considered whether there are subsequent significant changes in those assumptions which would
adversely impact the results of the impairment review.
As required by IAS 36, all estimates of future cash flows exclude cash inflows or outflows that are expected to arise from restructuring
initiatives where a constructive obligation to carry out the plan does not yet exist.
In line with prior year treatment, the Education, Social Housing and Local Authority (ESHLA) portfolio has been excluded from the Business
Banking CGU cash flows. This is a legacy loan portfolio which is not part of the business to which the goodwill relates. As such, the cash
flows relating to this portfolio have been excluded from the Business Banking VIU calculation.
Discount rates
IAS 36 requires that the discount rate used in a value in use calculation reflects the pre-tax rate an investor would require if they were to
choose an investment that would generate similar cash flows to those that the entity expects to generate from the asset. In determining the
discount rate, management identified the costs of equity associated with market participants that closely resemble the Barclays Bank UK
Group's CGUs. The cost of equity has been used as the discount rate in the 2024 impairment assessment and applied to the post tax cash
flows of the CGU. This post-tax method incorporates the impact of changing tax rates on the cash flows and is expected to produce the
same VIU result as the pre-tax method adjusted for varying tax rates. Using the resultant VIU the equivalent pre-tax discount rate has been
calculated. The cost of equity rate used for all CGUs in this year’s calculation has been increased to reflect the relative volatility of Barclays
PLC’s stock price versus the average of its peers. The range of equivalent pre-tax discount rates applicable across the CGUs are from
18.25% to 19.22% (2023: 17.40% to 18.55%).
Terminal growth rate
The terminal growth rate is used to estimate the effect of projecting cash flows to the end of an asset’s useful economic life. It is
management’s judgement that the cash flows associated with the CGUs will grow in line with the UK economy in which the Barclays Bank
UK Group operates. Inflation rates are used as an approximation of future growth rates and form the basis of the terminal growth rates
applied. The terminal growth rate used is 2.0% (2023: 2.0%).

[PAGE 222]

Notes to the financial statements
Assets at amortised cost and other investments
Outcome of goodwill and intangible assets impairment review
The Personal Banking and Business Banking CGUs carry the majority of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s goodwill balance, predominantly as a
consequence of the Woolwich acquisition. As at 31 December 2024, the goodwill within Personal Banking was £3,029m (2023: £3,029m),
of which £2,501m (2023: £2,501m) was attributable to Woolwich, and within Business Banking the goodwill was £629m (2023: £629m),
fully attributable to Woolwich. The recoverable amounts for Personal Banking and Business Banking have decreased in comparison to the
2023 impairment review. Barclaycard Consumer UK has an increased recoverable amount, compared to 2023 where the value in use had
reduced to a level such that an adverse movement in any of the key judgement areas would have resulted in an impairment. The changes
in the headroom (value in use less the carrying value) in the year are reflective of expected changes in the interest rate and macroeconomic
outlook.
Based on management’s plans and assumptions, no impairment has been recognised.
The outcomes of the impairment reviews for the Personal Banking, Business Banking and Barclaycard Consumer UK CGUs are set out
below:
Value in use Value in use
exceeding exceeding
carrying value carrying value
Cash generating unit Tangible equity Goodwill Intangibles Carrying value Value in use 2024 2023
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Personal Banking 7,702 3,029 112 10,843 13,257 2,414 3,211
Business Banking 1,940 629 — 2,569 5,689 3,120 3,258
Barclaycard Consumer UK 1,891 179 2 2,072 2,267 195 —
Total 11,533 3,837 114 15,484 21,213 5,729 6,469
Sensitivity of key judgements
The CGUs are sensitive to possible adverse changes in the key assumptions that support the recoverable amount:
Cash flows: The medium-term plans used to determine the cash flows used in the VIU calculation rely on macroeconomic forecasts,
including interest rates, GDP and unemployment, and forecast levels of customers activity. Interest rate assumptions impact planned cash
flows from both customer income and structural hedge contributions and therefore cash flow expectations are highly sensitive to
movements in the yield curve. The cash flows also contain assumptions with regard to the prudential and financial conduct regulatory
environment which may be subject to change. A sensitivity analysis has been provided to illustrate the impact of a 10% reduction in cash
flows.
Discount rate: The discount rate should reflect the market risk-free rate adjusted for the inherent risks of the business it is applied to.
Management has identified discount rates for comparable businesses and consider these to be a reasonable estimate of a suitable market
rate for the profile of the business unit being tested. The risk that these discount rates may not be appropriate is quantified below by
showing the impact of a 100bps increase in the discount rate.
Terminal growth rate: The terminal growth rate is used to estimate the cash flows into perpetuity based on the expected longevity of the
CGU’s businesses. The terminal growth rate is sensitive to uncertainties in the macroeconomic environment. The risk that using inflation
data may not be appropriate for its determination is quantified below and shows the impact of a 100bps decrease in the terminal growth
rate is shown.
Allocated capital rate: Tangible equity is allocated based on the level of risk weighted assets (RWAs) and capital required to be deployed in
the CGU which is dependent on the relative risk of businesses. The capital ratio used in determining the level of tangible equity allocated to
the CGU and its capital cash flows could move over time as a result of a change to the prudential regulatory environment or the risk profile
of the business. The impact of a 50bps increase in capital ratio is quantified below.
The sensitivity of the value in use to key judgements in the calculations for certain CGUs holding goodwill balances is set out below:
Change required to reduce headroom to
Reduction in headroom zero
50bps
100bps 100bps increase
Value in use increase in decrease in to 10%
exceeding Terminal the terminal allocated reduction in Terminal Allocated
Cash generating Carrying Value in carrying Discount growth discount growth capital forecasted Discount growth Capital Cash
unit value use value rate rate rate rate rate cash flows rate rate rate flows
£m £m £m % % £m £m £m £m % % % %
Personal
Banking 10,843 13,257 2,414 19.2 2.0 (1,109) (761) (351) (1,525) 2.4 (3.9) 3.4 (15.8)
Business
banking 2,569 5,689 3,120 19.2 2.0 (474) (323) (102) (655) 12.7 (32.9) 15.4 (47.6)
Barclaycard
Consumer
UK 2,072 2,267 195 18.2 2.0 (204) (138) (79) (257) 1.0 (1.5) 1.2 (7.6)
Total 15,484 21,213 5,729

[PAGE 223]

Notes to the financial statements
Accruals, provisions, contingent liabilities and legal proceedings
The notes included in this section focus on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s accruals, provisions and contingent liabilities. Provisions are
recognised for present obligations arising as consequences of past events where it is probable that a transfer of economic benefit will be
necessary to settle the obligation, and it can be reliably estimated. Contingent liabilities reflect potential liabilities that are not recognised
on the balance sheet.
21 Other liabilities
Barclays Bank UK Group Barclays Bank UK PLC
2024 2023 2024 2023
£m £m £m £m
Accruals and deferred income 375 332 364 313
Other creditors 968 1,084 991 1,079
Items in the course of collection due to other banks 91 49 91 49
Lease liabilities (refer to Note 19) 132 162 132 162
Other liabilities 1,566 1,627 1,578 1,603
22 Provisions
Accounting for provisions
Provisions are recognised for present obligations arising as consequences of past events where it is more likely than not that a transfer
of economic benefit will be necessary to settle the obligation, which can be reliably estimated.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements
The financial reporting of provisions involves a significant degree of judgement and is complex. Identifying whether a present obligation
exists and estimating the probability, timing, nature and quantum of the outflows that may arise from past events requires judgements
to be made based on the specific facts and circumstances relating to individual events and often requires specialist professional advice.
When matters are at an early stage, accounting judgements and estimates can be difficult because of the high degree of uncertainty
involved. Management continues to monitor matters as they develop to re-evaluate on an ongoing basis whether provisions should be
recognised, however there can remain a wide range of possible outcomes and uncertainties, particularly in relation to legal, competition
and regulatory matters, and as a result it is often not practicable to make meaningful estimates even when matters are at a more
advanced stage.
The amount that is recognised as a provision can also be very sensitive to the assumptions made in calculating it. This gives rise to a
large range of potential outcomes which require judgement in determining an appropriate provision level. See Note 24 for more detail of
legal, competition and regulatory matters.

[PAGE 224]

Notes to the financial statements
Accruals, provisions, contingent liabilities and legal proceedings
Legal,
competition
Redundancy and
and Customer regulatory Sundry
restructuring redress matters provisions Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Barclays Bank UK Group
As at 1 January 2024 82 153 1 101 337
Additions 59 23 — 52 134
Amounts utilised (94) (52) (1) (34) (181)
Unused amounts reversed (18) (4) — (33) (55)
Exchange and other movements1 9 63 — — 72
As at 31 December 2024 38 183 — 86 307
Undrawn contractually committed facilities and guarantees2
As at 1 January 2024 27
Net change in expected credit loss provision and other movements (11)
As at 31 December 2024 16
Total provisions
As at 1 January 2024 364
As at 31 December 2024 323
Barclays Bank UK PLC
As at 1 January 2024 82 103 1 98 284
Additions 59 19 — 49 127
Amounts utilised (94) (51) (1) (31) (177)
Unused amounts reversed (18) (4) — (33) (55)
Exchange and other movements1 9 63 — — 72
As at 31 December 2024 38 130 — 83 251
Undrawn contractually committed facilities and guarantees2
As at 1 January 2024 27
Net change in expected credit loss provision and other movements (11)
As at 31 December 2024 16
Total provisions
As at 1 January 2024 311
As at 31 December 2024 267
Notes
1 Included within Exchange and other movements is an amount of £62m related to indemnified provisions arising from the acquisition of Tesco Bank. Further
details regarding the nature of these indemnities are disclosed in Note 35- Business Acquisitions.
2 Undrawn contractually committed facilities and guarantees provisions are accounted for under IFRS 9. Further analysis of the movement in the expected
credit loss provision is disclosed within the 'Movement in gross exposures and impairment allowance including provisions for loan commitments and
financial guarantees' table on pages 89 and 92.
Provisions expected to be recovered or settled within no more than 12 months after 31 December 2024 were £285m (2023: £279m) for
Barclays Bank UK Group and £229m (2023: £226m) for Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Redundancy and restructuring
These provisions comprise the estimated cost of restructuring, including redundancy costs where an obligation exists. For example, when
the Barclays Bank UK Group has a detailed formal plan for restructuring a business and has raised valid expectations in those affected by
the restructuring by announcing its main features or starting to implement the plan.
Customer redress
Customer redress provisions comprise the estimated cost of making redress payments to customers, clients and counterparties for losses
or damages associated with inappropriate judgement in the execution of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s business activities.
Legal, competition and regulatory matters
The Barclays Bank UK Group is engaged in various legal proceedings. For further information in relation to legal proceedings and discussion
of the associated uncertainties, please refer to Note 24.
Sundry provisions
This category includes provisions that do not fit into any of the other categories, such as fraud losses and dilapidation provisions.

[PAGE 225]

Notes to the financial statements
Accruals, provisions, contingent liabilities and legal proceedings
Undrawn contractually committed facilities and guarantees
Impairment allowance under IFRS 9 considers both the drawn and the undrawn counterparty exposure. For retail portfolios, the total
impairment allowance is allocated to the drawn exposure to the extent that the allowance does not exceed the exposure as ECL is not
reported separately. Any excess is reported on the liability side of the balance sheet as a provision. For wholesale portfolios, the impairment
allowance on the undrawn exposure is reported on the liability side of the balance sheet as a provision. For further information, refer to the
Credit risk section for loan commitments and financial guarantees on page 89 and 92.
23 Contingent liabilities and commitments
Accounting for contingent liabilities
Contingent liabilities are possible obligations whose existence will be confirmed only by uncertain future events and present obligations
where the transfer of economic resources is uncertain or cannot be reliably measured. Contingent liabilities are not recognised on the
balance sheet but are disclosed unless the likelihood of an outflow of economic resources is remote.
The following table summarises the nominal principal amount of contingent liabilities and commitments which are not recorded on-
balance sheet:
Barclays Bank UK Group Barclays Bank UK PLC
2024 2023 2024 2023
£m £m £m £m
Guarantees and letters of credit pledged as collateral security 560 511 560 511
Performance guarantees, acceptances and endorsements 150 150 150 150
Total contingent liabilities and financial guarantees 710 661 710 661
Standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments 66,959 49,820 66,574 49,646
Total commitments 66,959 49,820 66,574 49,646
Provisions for expected credit losses held against contingent liabilities and commitments equal £16m (2023: £27m) for Barclays Bank UK
Group and Barclays Bank UK PLC and are reported in Note 22.
Further details on contingent liabilities relating to legal, competition and regulatory matters can be found in Note 24.
24 Legal, competition and regulatory matters
The Barclays Bank UK Group faces legal, competition and regulatory challenges, many of which are beyond our control. The extent of the
impact of these matters cannot always be predicted but may materially impact our operations, financial results, condition and prospects.
Matters arising from a set of similar circumstances can give rise to either a contingent liability or a provision, or both, depending on the
relevant facts and circumstances.
The recognition of provisions in relation to such matters involves critical accounting estimates and judgements in accordance with the
relevant accounting policies applicable to Note 22, Provisions. We have not disclosed an estimate of the potential financial impact or effect
on the Barclays Bank UK Group of contingent liabilities where it is not currently practicable to do so. Various matters detailed in this note
seek damages of an unspecified amount. While certain matters specify the damages claimed, such claimed amounts do not necessarily
reflect the Barclays Bank UK Group’s potential financial exposure in respect of those matters.
HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) assessments concerning UK Value Added Tax
In 2018, HMRC issued notices that have the effect of either removing certain Barclays overseas subsidiaries that have operations in the UK
from Barclays’ UK VAT group or preventing them from joining it. Supplies between members of a UK VAT group are generally free from
VAT. The notices had both retrospective and prospective effect. Barclays appealed HMRC’s decisions to the First-Tier Tribunal (Tax
Chamber) in relation to both the retrospective VAT assessments and the ongoing VAT payments made since 2018. £181m of VAT
(inclusive of interest) was assessed retrospectively by HMRC covering the periods 2014 to 2018, of which approximately £128m is
expected to be attributed to Barclays Bank UK PLC and £53m to Barclays Bank PLC. This retrospectively assessed VAT was paid in 2018 and
an asset, adjusted to reflect expected eventual recovery, is recognised. Since 2018 Barclays has paid, and recognised as an expense, VAT on
intra-group supplies from the relevant subsidiaries to the members of the VAT group. In respect of the ongoing VAT payments, the court
upheld HMRC’s denial of the VAT grouping in August 2024. Barclays has appealed this decision to the Upper Tribunal.
FCA investigation concerning financial crime systems and controls and compliance with the Money Laundering Regulations 2007
The FCA is conducting a civil enforcement investigation into Barclays Bank UK PLC’s and Barclays Bank PLC’s compliance with the Money
Laundering Regulations 2007 and the FCA’s Principles of Business and Rules relating to anti-money laundering and financial crime systems
and controls. The FCA's investigation focuses primarily on the historical oversight and management of certain customers with heightened
risk. Barclays has been co-operating with the investigation.

[PAGE 226]

Notes to the financial statements
Accruals, provisions, contingent liabilities and legal proceedings
UK bank levy
In November 2024, HMRC updated its published guidance on the treatment of beneficiary accounts for the purposes of the exclusion of
protected deposits from the UK bank levy charge. HMRC’s interpretation of the UK bank levy legislation differs from Barclays’ interpretation
of the legislation, which has been applied in Barclays’ UK bank levy returns and which Barclays continues to consider is correct. In
December 2024, HMRC wrote to notify Barclays of its intention to challenge this treatment. Engagement with HMRC is at an early stage
and assessments have not yet been issued.
General
The Barclays Bank UK Group is engaged in various other legal, competition and regulatory matters in the jurisdictions in which it operates.
The Barclays Bank UK Group is subject to legal proceedings brought by and against members of the Barclays Bank UK Group which arise in
the ordinary course of business from time to time, including (but not limited to) disputes in relation to contracts, securities, guarantees,
debt collection, consumer credit, fraud, trusts, client assets, competition, data management and protection, intellectual property, money
laundering, financial crime, employment, environmental and other statutory and common law issues.
The Barclays Bank UK Group is also subject to enquiries and examinations, requests for information, audits, investigations and legal and
other proceedings by regulators, governmental and other public bodies in connection with (but not limited to) consumer protection
measures, measures to combat money laundering and financial crime, compliance with legislation and regulation, wholesale trading
activity and other areas of banking and business activities in which it is or has been engaged. The Barclays Bank UK Group is cooperating
with the relevant authorities and keeping all relevant agencies briefed as appropriate in relation to these matters and others described in
this note on an ongoing basis.
At the present time, the Barclays Bank UK Group does not expect the ultimate resolution of any of these other matters to have a material
adverse effect on its financial position. However, in light of the uncertainties involved in such matters and the matters specifically described
in this note, there can be no assurance that the outcome of a particular matter or matters (including formerly active matters or those
matters arising after the date of this note) will not be material to Barclays Bank UK PLC’s results, operations or cash flows for a particular
period, depending on, among other things, the amount of the loss resulting from the matter(s) and the amount of profit otherwise reported
for the reporting period.

[PAGE 227]

Notes to the financial statements
Capital instruments, equity and reserves
The notes included in this section focus on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s loan capital and shareholders’ equity including issued share
capital, retained earnings and other equity balances. For more information on capital management and how the Barclays Bank UK
Group maintains sufficient capital to meet our regulatory requirements refer to page 65.
25 Subordinated liabilities
Accounting for subordinated liabilities
Subordinated liabilities are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method under IFRS 9.
Barclays Bank UK Group and PLC
2024 2023
£m £m
As at 1 January 11,499 8,268
Issuances 2,277 4,393
Redemptions (372) (1,136)
Other 108 (26)
As at 31 December 13,512 11,499
Issuances of £2,277m comprise £1,762m intra-group loans from Barclays PLC, £258m AUD 6.158% Fixed-to-Floating Tier2 Subordinated
Callable Notes and £257m AUD Floating Rate Tier2 Subordinated Callable Notes issued to Barclays PLC.
Redemptions of £372m comprise USD 4.375% Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes issued to Barclays PLC.
Other movements predominantly comprise foreign exchange movements and fair value hedge adjustments.
Subordinated liabilities include accrued interest and none of the subordinated liabilities are secured.
Barclays Bank UK Group and PLC1
2024 2023
Initial call date Maturity date £m £m
Barclays Bank UK PLC notes issued intra-group to Barclays PLC
4.375% Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes (USD 1,250m) 2024 — 380
3.75% Fixed Rate Resetting Subordinated Callable Notes (GBP 500m) 2025 2030 483 466
5.20% Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes (USD 683m) 2026 528 509
4.836% Fixed Rate Subordinated Callable Notes (USD 800m) 2027 2028 613 599
5.088% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Subordinated Callable Notes (USD 200m) 2029 2030 145 144
3.564% Fixed Rate Resetting Subordinated Callable Notes (USD 1,000m) 2030 2035 661 653
6.158% Fixed to Floating Tier2 Subordinated Callable Notes (AUD 500m) 2030 2035 248 —
Floating Rate Tier2 Subordinated Callable Notes (AUD 500m) 2030 2035 248 —
7.119% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Subordinated Callable Notes (USD 640m) 2033 2034 488 500
Barclays Bank UK PLC intra-group loans from Barclays PLC
Various Fixed, Fixed-to-Floating and Floating Rate Subordinated Loans 10,098 8,248
Total subordinated liabilities 13,512 11,499
Note
1 Instrument values are disclosed to the nearest million.
Subordinated liabilities
Subordinated liabilities are issued by Barclays Bank UK PLC for the development and expansion of the business and to strengthen the
capital base. The principal terms of these liabilities are described below:
Currency and Maturity
In addition to the individual subordinated liabilities listed in the table, the £10,098m (2023: £8,248m) balance of intra-group loans is made
up of various fixed, fixed-to-floating and floating rate loans from Barclays PLC with notional amounts denominated in USD 9,890m,
EUR 1,150m and GBP 1,400m, with maturities ranging from 2025 to 2055. Certain intra-group loans have a call date one year prior to their
maturity.
Subordination
All subordinated liabilities are issued intra-group to Barclays PLC. Both the subordinated notes and the subordinated loans rank behind the
claims of depositors and other unsecured unsubordinated creditors but before the claims of the holders of Barclays Bank UK PLC
equity. However, the subordinated notes rank behind the subordinated loans.

[PAGE 228]

Notes to the financial statements
Capital instruments, equity and reserves
Interest
Interest on the floating rate loans is set by reference to market rates at the time of issuance and is fixed periodically in advance, based on
the related market rate.
Interest on fixed rate notes and loans is set by reference to market rates at the time of issuance and fixed until maturity.
Interest on fixed rate callable notes and loans is set by reference to market rates at the time of issuance and fixed until the call date. After
the call date, in the event that the notes or loans are not redeemed, the interest rate will be re-set to either a fixed or floating rate until
maturity based on market rates.
Repayment
Those notes and loans with a call date are repayable at the option of Barclays Bank UK PLC on such call date in accordance with the
conditions governing the respective liabilities, some in whole or in part, and some only in whole, or otherwise on maturity. The remaining
instruments outstanding at 31 December 2024 are redeemable only on maturity, subject in particular cases to provisions allowing an early
redemption in the event of certain changes in tax law or to certain changes in legislation or regulations.
Any repayments prior to maturity may require the prior consent of the PRA or BoE.
There are no committed facilities in existence at the balance sheet date which permit the refinancing of debt beyond the date of maturity.
26 Ordinary shares, share premium, and other equity
Called up share capital, allotted and fully paid
Total called up
Number of ordinary share
ordinary Ordinary share Ordinary share capital and Other equity
Barclays Bank UK Group and Barclays Bank UK PLC shares capital premium share premium instruments
m £m £m £m £m
As at 1 January 2024 505 5 — 5 2,429
AT1 securities issuance — — — — 618
AT1 securities redemption — — — — (622)
As at 31 December 2024 505 5 — 5 2,425
As at 1 January 2023 505 5 — 5 2,560
AT1 securities issuance — — — — 619
AT1 securities redemption — — — — (750)
As at 31 December 2023 505 5 — 5 2,429
Ordinary shares
The issued ordinary share capital of Barclays Bank UK PLC, as at 31 December 2024, comprised 505m (2023: 505m) ordinary shares of
£0.01 each.
Other equity instruments
Other equity instruments of £2,425m (2023: £2,429m) include AT1 securities issued to Barclays PLC. Barclays PLC uses funds from its own
market issuance of AT1 securities to purchase AT1 securities from Barclays Bank UK Group. The AT1 securities are perpetual securities
with no fixed maturity and are structured to qualify as AT1 instruments under prevailing capital rules applicable as at the relevant issue
date.
In 2024, there were one issuance (2023: one) of AT1 instruments in the form of Fixed Rate Resetting Perpetual Subordinated Contingent
Convertible Securities for £618m (2023: £619m) which includes issuance costs of £6m (2023: £6m) and one redemption (2023: one) for
£622m (2023: £750m).
AT1 equity instruments
2024 2023
Initial call date £m £m
AT1 equity instruments - Barclays Bank UK Group
5.875% Perpetual Subordinated Contingent Convertible Securities 2024 — 622
7.125% Perpetual Subordinated Contingent Convertible Securities 2025 693 693
6.375% Perpetual Subordinated Contingent Convertible Securities 2025 495 495
9.250% Perpetual Subordinated Contingent Convertible Securities 2028 619 619
8.500% Perpetual Subordinated Contingent Convertible Securities 2030 618 —
Total AT1 equity instruments 2,425 2,429

[PAGE 229]

Notes to the financial statements
Capital instruments, equity and reserves
27 Reserves
Fair value through other comprehensive income reserve
The fair value through other comprehensive income reserve represents the changes in the fair value of financial instruments accounted for
at fair value through other comprehensive income investments since initial recognition.
Cash flow hedging reserve
The cash flow hedging reserve represents the cumulative gains and losses on effective cash flow hedging instruments that will be recycled
to the income statement when the hedged transactions affect profit or loss.
Other reserves and other shareholders’ equity
Other reserves and other shareholders’ equity relate to the merger reserve for Barclays Bank UK Group and the Group Reconstruction Relief
for Barclays Bank UK PLC, in respect of the transfer of the UK banking business in 2018.
Barclays Bank UK Group Barclays Bank UK PLC
2024 2023 2024 2023
£m £m £m £m
Fair value through other comprehensive income reserve (192) (159) (192) (159)
Cash flow hedging reserve (793) (1,081) (793) (1,081)
Other reserves and other shareholders' equity 89 89 191 191
Total (896) (1,151) (794) (1,049)

[PAGE 230]

Notes to the financial statements
Employee benefits
The notes included in this section focus on the costs and commitments associated with employing our staff.
28 Staff costs
Accounting for staff costs
Deferred cash and share awards are made to employees to incentivise performance over the period employees provide services. To
receive an award, an individual must have provided service over the vesting period and been employed on the scheduled vesting date or
be considered an eligible leaver. The expense for deferred cash and share awards is recognised over the period employees’ services
contribute to the awards. The Barclays Bank UK Group considers it appropriate to recognise the expense over the vesting period including
the financial year prior to the grant date.
The accounting policy for share-based payments is included in Note 29.
2024 2023
£m £m
Performance costs 103 91
Salaries 761 714
Social security costs 92 86
Post-retirement benefits1 56 56
Other compensation costs 33 33
Total compensation costs 1,045 980
Other resourcing costs
Outsourcing 95 82
Redundancy and restructuring 41 98
Temporary staff costs 17 31
Other 17 18
Total other resourcing costs 170 229
Total staff costs 1,215 1,209
Note
1 Post-retirement benefits charge relates to £56m (2023: £56m) in respect of defined contribution schemes.
Participation in the UK Retirement Fund (UKRF)
As permitted under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Banking Reform) (Pensions) Regulations 2015, currently Barclays Bank
UK PLC is a participating employer in the UKRF and will remain so during a transitional phase as set out in a deed of participation. Barclays
Bank PLC, a fellow subsidiary of Barclays PLC, is the principal employer of the UKRF. In the event of Barclays Bank PLC’s insolvency during
this period provision has been made to require Barclays Bank UK PLC to become the principal employer of the UKRF. Barclays Bank PLC’s
Section 75 debt would be triggered by the insolvency (the debt would be calculated after allowing for the payment to the UKRF of any
collateral above). To meet the requirements of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Banking Reform) (Pensions) Regulations 2015
it is Barclays’ intention to sectionalise the UKRF in July 2025, creating two separate sections – the Barclays Bank Section and the Barclays UK
Section (with Barclays Bank UK PLC participating in the Barclays UK Section only). This will not change the financial position of the UKRF
from a consolidated Barclays PLC Group perspective, and members’ benefits will be unchanged as a result of the actions Barclays is taking
to meet its regulatory obligations.
Under IAS 19, the UKRF is a defined benefit plan that shares risks between entities under common control. Barclays Bank PLC accounts for
the defined benefit obligation and Barclays Bank UK PLC recognises a cost equal to its contributions to the scheme. In accordance with
accounting standards, Barclays Bank UK PLC does not account for any potential additional liability to the scheme at the end of the
transitional phase.

[PAGE 231]

Notes to the financial statements
Employee benefits
29 Share-based payments
Accounting for share-based payments
Employee incentives include awards in the form of shares and share options, as well as offering employees the opportunity to purchase
shares on favourable terms. The cost of the employee services received in respect of the shares or share options granted is recognised in
the income statement over the period that employees provide services. The overall cost of the award is calculated using the number of
shares and options expected to vest and the fair value of the shares or options at the date of grant.
The number of shares and options expected to vest takes into account the likelihood that performance and service conditions included in
the terms of the awards will be met. For other share-based payment schemes such as Sharesave and Sharepurchase, there are non-
vesting conditions which must be met. Failure to meet the non-vesting condition is treated as a cancellation, resulting in an acceleration
of recognition of the cost of the employee services.
The fair value of shares is the market price ruling on the grant date, in some cases adjusted to reflect restrictions on transferability. The
fair value of options granted is determined using the Black-Scholes model to estimate the numbers of shares likely to vest. The model
takes into account the exercise price of the option, the current share price, the risk-free interest rate, the expected volatility of the share
price over the life of the option and other relevant factors. Market conditions that must be met in order for the award to vest are also
reflected in the fair value of the award, as are any other non-vesting conditions – such as continuing to make payments into a share-
based savings scheme.
The charge for the year arising from share based payment schemes was as follows:
Charge for the year
2024 2023
£m £m
Share Value Plan and Deferred Share Value Plan 7 5
Others 16 16
Total Equity settled 23 21
Cash Settled — —
Total share based payments 23 21
The terms of the main current plans are as follows:
Share Value Plan (SVP)
SVP awards have been granted to participants in the form of a conditional right to receive Barclays PLC shares or provisional allocations of
Barclays PLC shares which vest or are considered for release over a period of three, four, five or seven years. Participants do not pay to
receive an award or to receive a release of shares. For awards granted before December 2017, the grantor may also make a dividend
equivalent payment to participants on release of an SVP award. SVP awards are also made to eligible employees for recruitment purposes.
All awards are subject to potential forfeiture in certain leaver scenarios.
Deferred Share Value Plan (DSVP)
The terms of the DSVP are materially the same as the terms of the SVP as described above, save that Executive Directors are not eligible to
participate in the DSVP and the DSVP operates over market purchase shares only.
Other schemes
In addition to the SVP and DSVP, the Barclays PLC Group operates a number of other schemes settled in Barclays PLC Shares including
Sharesave (both UK and Ireland), Sharepurchase (both UK and overseas), and the Barclays PLC Group Long Term Incentive Plan. A delivery
of upfront shares to ‘Material Risk Takers’ can be made as a Share Incentive Award (Holding Period) under the SVP.

[PAGE 232]

Notes to the financial statements
Employee benefits
Share option and award plans
The weighted average fair value per award granted, weighted average share price at the date of exercise/release of shares during the year,
weighted average contractual remaining life and number of options and awards outstanding (including those exercisable) at the balance
sheet date were as follows:
2024 2023
Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted
average fair average share Weighted average fair average share Weighted
value per price at average Number of value per price at average Number of
award exercise/ remaining options/ award exercise/ remaining options/
granted in release during contractual awards granted in release during contractual awards
year year life outstanding year year life outstanding
£ £ in years (000s) £ £ in years (000s)
SVP and DSVP1,2 1.61 1.73 2 13,291 1.44 1.68 2 12,265
Others1,3 0.81-2.11 1.71-2.11 0-2 77,945 0.31-1.69 1.43-1.69 0-2 93,867
SVP and DSVP are nil cost awards on which the performance conditions are substantially completed at the date of grant. Consequently, the
fair value of these awards is based on the market value at that date.
Sharesave has a contractual life of 3 years and 5 years, the expected volatility is 30.31% for 3 years and 27.49% for 5 years. The risk free
interest rates used for valuations are 4.09% and 3.97% for 3 years and 5 years respectively. The pure dividend yield rates used for
valuations are 2.91% and 3.00% for 3 years and 5 years respectively. The repo rates used for valuations are (0.54%) and (0.61%) for 3
years and 5 years respectively. The inputs into the model such as risk free interest rate, expected volatility, pure dividend yield rates and
repo rates are derived from market data.
Movements in options and awards
The movement in the number of options and awards for the major schemes and the weighted average exercise price of options was:
SVP and DSVP1,2 Others1,3
Weighted average
Number (000s) Number (000s) exercise price (£)
2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023
Outstanding at beginning of year/
acquisition date 12,265 12,379 93,867 114,368 1.05 0.96
Transfers within the year4 (1,027) 427 7,716 (6,175)
Granted in the year 6,030 4,493 15,991 34,509 1.79 1.17
Exercised/released in the year (3,491) (3,768) (32,908) (40,231) 0.95 0.87
Less: forfeited in the year (486) (1,266) (5,779) (7,393) 1.20 1.20
Less: expired in the year — — (942) (1,211) 1.27 1.40
Outstanding at end of year 13,291 12,265 77,945 93,867 1.20 1.05
Of which exercisable: — — 9,044 26,359 1.20 0.88
Notes
1 Options/award granted over Barclays PLC shares.
2 Weighted average exercise price is not applicable for SVP and DSVP awards as these are not share option schemes.
3 The number of awards within Others at the end of the year principally relates to Sharesave (number of awards exercisable at end of year was 2,318,823). The
weighted average exercise price relates to Sharesave.
4 Awards of employees transferred between Barclays Bank UK Group and the rest of the Barclays PLC Group.
Awards and options granted to employees and former employees of Barclays Bank UK Group under the Barclays PLC Group share plans
may be satisfied using new issue shares, treasury shares and market purchase shares of Barclays PLC. Awards granted to employees and
former employees of Barclays Bank UK Group under DSVP may only be satisfied using market purchase shares of Barclays PLC.
There were no significant modifications to the share based payments arrangements in 2024 and 2023.
As at 31 December 2024, the total liability arising from cash-settled share based payments transactions was £nil (2023: £nil).

[PAGE 233]

Notes to the financial statements
Scope of consolidation
The section presents information on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s interests in structured entities. Detail is also given on securitisation
transactions the Barclays Bank UK Group has entered into and arrangements that are held off-balance sheet.
30 Structured entities
A structured entity is an entity in which voting or similar rights are not the dominant factor in deciding who controls the entity. Voting
rights may relate to administrative tasks only, with the relevant activities of the entity being directed by means of contractual
arrangements. Structured entities are generally created to achieve a narrow and well-defined objective with restrictions around their
ongoing activities.
Depending on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s power over the activities of the entity and its exposure to and ability to influence its own
returns, it may consolidate the entity. In other cases, it may sponsor or have exposure to such an entity but not consolidate it.
Consolidated structured entities
The Barclays Bank UK Group has contractual arrangements which may require it to provide financial support to the following types of
consolidated structured entities:
Securitisation vehicles
The Barclays Bank UK Group uses securitisation as a source of financing and a means of risk transfer. Refer to Note 31 for further detail.
Unconsolidated structured entities
The term ‘unconsolidated structured entities’ refers to structured entities not controlled by the Barclays Bank UK Group, and are established
by the Barclays Bank UK Group or a third party. An interest in a structured entity is any form of contractual or non-contractual involvement
which creates variability in returns arising from the performance of the entity for the Barclays Bank UK Group. Such interests include
holding of debt or equity securities, lending, loan commitments and financial guarantees.
The Barclays Bank UK Group enters into transactions with unconsolidated structured entities in the normal course of business to facilitate
customer transactions, to provide risk management services and for specific investment opportunities. Structured entities may take the
form of funds, trusts, securitisation vehicles, and private investment companies. The largest transactions for Barclays Bank UK Group
include holding notes issued by securitisation vehicles, loans to trusts, and facilitating customer requirements through funds. As at
31 December 2024, Barclays entered into transactions with approximately 217 (2023: 145) structured entities.
The Barclays Bank UK Group’s interests in structured entities are set out below, summarised by the nature of the interest and limited to
significant categories, based on maximum exposure to loss.
Summary of interests in unconsolidated structured entities
Lending Other Total1
As at 31 December 2024 £m £m £m
Financial assets at fair value through the income statement 27 — 27
Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income — 719 719
Loans and advances at amortised cost 597 — 597
Debt securities at amortised cost — 8,893 8,893
Other assets — — —
Total on-balance sheet exposures 624 9,612 10,236
Total off-balance sheet notional amounts 4 — 4
Maximum exposure to loss 628 9,612 10,240
Total assets of the entity 4,722 22,916 27,638
As at 31 December 2023
Financial assets at fair value through the income statement 35 — 35
Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income — — —
Loans and advances at amortised cost 154 — 154
Debt securities at amortised cost — 9,270 9,270
Other assets — — —
Total on-balance sheet exposures 189 9,270 9,459
Total off-balance sheet notional amounts 19 — 19
Maximum exposure to loss 208 9,270 9,478
Total assets of the entity 4,882 24,008 28,890
Note
1 None of the structured entities are Barclays Bank UK Group owned and not consolidated per IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements.

[PAGE 234]

Notes to the financial statements
Scope of consolidation
Maximum exposure to loss
Unless specified otherwise below, the Barclays Bank UK Group’s maximum exposure to loss is the total of its on-balance sheet positions
and its off-balance sheet arrangements, being loan commitments and financial guarantees. Exposure to loss is mitigated through collateral,
financial guarantees, the availability of netting and credit protection held.
Lending
The portfolio includes lending provided by the Barclays Bank UK Group to unconsolidated structured entities in the normal course of its
lending business to earn income in the form of interest and lending fees and includes loans to structured entities that are generally
collateralised by property, equipment or other assets. All loans are subject to the Barclays Bank UK Group’s credit sanctioning process.
Collateral arrangements are specific to the circumstances of each loan with additional guarantees and collateral sought from the sponsor
of the structured entity for certain arrangements. During the year the Barclays Bank UK Group incurred immaterial impairment against such
facilities.
Other
This includes interests in debt securities issued by securitisation vehicles and investment funds with interests restricted to management
fees based on performance of the fund and trusts held on behalf of beneficiaries with interests restricted to unpaid fees.
Assets transferred to sponsored unconsolidated structured entities
The Barclays Bank UK Group is considered to sponsor another entity if, it had a key role in establishing that entity, it transferred assets to
the entity, the Barclays name appears in the name of the entity or it provides guarantees on the entity’s performance. As at 31 December
2024, no assets were transferred to sponsored unconsolidated structured entities.
31 Securitisations
Accounting for securitisations
The Barclays Bank UK Group uses securitisations as a source of finance and a means of risk transfer. Such transactions generally result
in the transfer of contractual cash flows from portfolios of financial assets to holders of issued debt securities.
Securitisations may, depending on the individual arrangement, result in continued recognition of the securitised assets and the
recognition of the debt securities issued in the transaction; lead to partial continued recognition of the assets to the extent of the
Barclays Bank UK Group’s continuing involvement in those assets or lead to derecognition of the assets and the separate recognition, as
assets or liabilities, of any rights and obligations created or retained in the transfer. Full derecognition only occurs when the Barclays
Bank UK group transfers both its contractual right to receive cash flows from the financial assets, or retains the contractual rights to
receive the cash flows, but assumes a contractual obligation to pay the cash flows to another party without material delay or
reinvestment, and also transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership, including credit risk, prepayment risk and interest
rate risk.
In the course of its normal banking activities, the Barclays Bank UK Group makes transfers of financial assets, either where legal rights to
the cash flows from the asset are passed to the counterparty or beneficially, where the Barclays Bank UK Group retains the rights to the
cash flows but assumes a responsibility to transfer them to the counterparty. Depending on the nature of the transaction, this may result in
derecognition of the assets in their entirety, partial derecognition or no derecognition of the assets subject to the transfer.
A summary of the main transactions, and the assets and liabilities and the financial risks arising from these transactions, is set out below:
Transfers of financial assets that do not result in derecognition
The Barclays Bank UK Group was party to securitisation transactions involving its credit card balances and mortgage loans. In these
transactions, the assets, interests in the assets, or beneficial interests in the cash flows arising from the assets, are transferred to a special
purpose entity, which then issues interest bearing debt securities to third party investors.
Securitisations may, depending on the individual arrangement, result in continued recognition of the securitised assets and the recognition
of the debt securities issued in the transaction. Partial continued recognition of the assets to the extent of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s
continuing involvement in those assets can also occur or derecognition of the assets and the separate recognition, as assets or liabilities, of
any rights and obligations created or retained in the transfer.
The following table shows the carrying amount of securitised assets that have not resulted in full derecognition, together with the
associated liabilities, for each category of asset on the balance sheet:

[PAGE 235]

Notes to the financial statements
Scope of consolidation
2024 2023
Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities
Carrying Carrying Carrying Carrying
amount Fair value amount Fair value amount Fair value amount Fair value
Barclays Bank UK Group £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Loans and advances at amortised cost
Credit cards, unsecured loans and other retail
lending 3,540 3,540 (555) (555) — — — —
Mortgage loans 254 263 (34) (34) 478 499 (45) (51)
Total 3,794 3,803 (589) (589) 478 499 (45) (51)
Balances included within loans and advances at amortised cost represent securitisations where substantially all the risks and rewards of the
asset have been retained by the Barclays Bank UK Group.
The relationship between the transferred assets and the associated liabilities is that holders of notes may only look to cash flows from the
securitised assets for payments of principal and interest due to them under the terms of their notes, although the contractual terms of their
notes may be different to the maturity and interest of the transferred assets.
2024 2023
Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities
Carrying Carrying Carrying Carrying
amount Fair value amount Fair value amount Fair value amount Fair value
Barclays Bank UK PLC £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Loans and advances at amortised cost
Credit cards, unsecured loans and other retail
lending 3,540 3,540 (555) (555) — — — —
Mortgage loans 231 239 — — 435 454 — —
Total 3,771 3,779 (555) (555) 435 454 — —
Balances included within Credit cards, unsecured loans and other retail lending represent securitisations where substantially all the risks
and rewards of the asset have been retained and balances included within Mortgage loans represent securitisations where the risks and
rewards are neither substantially transferred nor retained.
If Barclays Bank UK PLC transfers a financial asset but does not transfer or retain substantially all the risk and rewards of the asset and
retains control over it, the transferred assets are recognised to the extent of Barclays Bank UK PLCs continuing involvement. Total mortgage
assets of £496m (2023: £496m) were originally transferred in this manner and the carrying value of the asset representing continued
involvement is included in the table above.
Continuing involvement in financial assets that have been derecognised
In some cases, the Barclays Bank UK Group may have transferred a financial asset in its entirety but may have continuing involvement in it.
This arises in asset securitisations where loans and asset backed securities were derecognised as a result of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s
involvement with residential mortgage backed securities. Continuing involvement largely arises from providing financing into these
structures in the form of retained notes, which do not bear first losses.
The table below shows the potential financial implications of such continuing involvement:
Continuing involvement1 Gain/(loss) from continuing
involvement
Maximum For the year Cumulative to 31
Carrying amount Fair value exposure to loss ended December
Type of transfer £m £m £m £m £m
2024
Residential mortgage backed securities 941 934 941 34 24
Total 941 934 941 34 24
2023
Residential mortgage backed securities 600 600 600 (10) (10)
Total 600 600 600 (10) (10)
Note
1 Assets which represent the Barclays Bank UK Group’s continuing involvement in derecognised assets are recorded in Loans and advances at amortised cost.

[PAGE 236]

Notes to the financial statements
Scope of consolidation
32 Assets pledged, collateral received and assets transferred
Assets are pledged or transferred as collateral to secure liabilities under repurchase agreements, securitisations and stock lending
agreements or as security deposits relating to derivatives. Assets transferred are non-cash assets transferred to a third party that do not
qualify for derecognition from the Barclays Bank UK Group balance sheet, for example because Barclays Bank UK Group retains
substantially all the exposure to those assets under an agreement to repurchase them in the future for a fixed price.
Where non-cash assets are pledged or transferred as collateral for cash received, the asset continues to be recognised in full, and a related
liability is also recognised on the balance sheet. Where non-cash assets are pledged or transferred as collateral in an exchange for non-cash
assets, the transferred asset continues to be recognised in full, and there is no associated liability as the non-cash collateral received is not
recognised on the balance sheet. The Barclays Bank UK Group is unable to use, sell or pledge the transferred assets for the duration of the
transaction and remains exposed to interest rate risk and credit risk on these pledged assets. Unless stated, the counterparty's recourse is
not limited to the transferred assets.
Collateralised transactions, such as securities lending and borrowing, repurchase and derivative transactions are conducted in accordance
with standard terms which are customary in the market.
The following table summarises the nature and carrying amount of the assets pledged as security:
Barclays Bank UK Group and PLC
2024 2023
£m £m
Loans and advances at amortised cost 23,524 25,704
Cash collateral 3,972 3,650
Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 1,761 1,264
Assets pledged 29,257 30,618
The following table summarises the transferred financial assets and the associated liabilities. The transferred assets represents the gross
carrying value of the assets pledged and the associated liabilities represents the IFRS balance sheet value of the related liability recorded on
the balance sheet.
Barclays Bank UK Group and PLC
Transferred Associated
assets liabilities
£m £m
As at 31 December 2024
Repurchase agreements 19,782 (15,502)
Debt securities in issue 3,481 (2,532)
Derivatives 955 (955)
Other 5,039 (3,840)
Total 29,257 (22,829)
As at 31 December 2023
Repurchase agreements 22,590 (15,264)
Debt securities in issue 2,170 (1,525)
Derivatives 1,247 (1,247)
Other 4,611 (3,495)
Total 30,618 (21,531)
Included within Debt securities in issue are agreements where a counterparty's recourse is limited to the transferred assets. The
relationship between the gross transferred assets and the associated liabilities is that holders of notes may only look to cash flows from the
securitised assets for payments of principal and interest due to them under the terms of their notes.
Carrying value Fair value
Transferred Associated Transferred Associated
assets liabilities assets liabilities Net position
£m £m £m £m £m
2024
Recourse to transferred assets only 3,794 (576) 3,803 (575) 3,228
2023
Recourse to transferred assets only — — — — —
Barclays Bank UK Group has an additional £5.7bn (2023: £3.7bn) of loans and advances within its asset backed funding programmes that
can readily be used to raise additional secured funding and are available to support future issuances.

[PAGE 237]

Notes to the financial statements
Scope of consolidation
Collateral held as security for assets
Under certain transactions, including reverse repurchase agreements and stock borrowing transactions, Barclays Bank UK Group is allowed
to resell or re-pledge the collateral held. Collateralised transactions, such as securities lending and borrowing, repurchase and derivative
transactions are conducted in accordance with standard terms which are customary in the market.
The fair value at the balance sheet date of collateral accepted and re-pledged to others was as follows:
Barclays Bank UK Group and PLC
2024 2023
£m £m
Fair value of securities accepted as collateral 6,520 6,285
Of which fair value of securities re-pledged/transferred to others 681 1,296

[PAGE 238]

Notes to the financial statements
Other disclosure matters
The notes included in this section focus on related party transactions, Auditors’ remuneration, Directors’ remuneration and business
acquisitions. Related parties include any subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures and key management personnel.
33 Related party transactions and Directors’ remuneration
Related party transactions
Parties are considered to be related if one party has the ability to control the other party or exercise significant influence over the other
party in making financial or operational decisions, or one other party controls both.
Parent company
The parent company, which is also the ultimate parent company, is Barclays PLC, which holds 100% of the issued ordinary shares of
Barclays Bank UK PLC. The largest group in which the results of the Company are consolidated is headed by Barclays PLC, 1 Churchill Place
London E14 5HP. The consolidated financial statements of the Barclays Group are available to the public and may be obtained from
Barclays Corporate Secretariat, 1 Churchill Place London E14 5HP.
Subsidiaries
Transactions between Barclays Bank UK PLC and its subsidiaries also meet the definition of related party transactions. Where these are
eliminated on consolidation, they are not disclosed in the Barclays Bank UK Group’s financial statements.
Fellow subsidiaries
Transactions between the Barclays Bank UK Group and other subsidiaries of the parent company also meet the definition of related party
transactions.
Associates, joint ventures and other entities
There were no material related party transactions with associates, joint ventures or pension funds during the year.
Amounts included in the Barclays Bank UK Group’s financial statements, in aggregate, by category of related party entity are as follows:
Fellow
Parent subsidiaries
£m £m
For the year ended and as at 31 December 2024
Total income (641) 243
Credit impairment charges — —
Operating expenses (45) (2,338)
Total assets — 5,049
Total liabilities 14,080 556
For the year ended and as at 31 December 2023
Total income (484) 185
Credit impairment charges — —
Operating expenses (52) (2,453)
Total assets — 2,846
Total liabilities 12,027 535
Amounts included in Barclays Bank UK PLC’s financial statements, in aggregate, by category of related party entity are as follows:
Fellow
Parent Subsidiaries subsidiaries
£m £m £m
As at 31 December 2024
Total assets — 1,025 5,022
Total liabilities 14,080 1,123 505
As at 31 December 2023
Total assets — 1,136 2,817
Total liabilities 12,027 735 535
It is the normal practice of Barclays Bank UK PLC to provide its subsidiaries with support and assistance by way of guarantees, indemnities,
letters of comfort and commitments, as may be appropriate, with a view to enabling them to meet their obligations and to maintain their
good standing, including commitment of capital and facilities. For dividends paid to Barclays PLC see Note 10.

[PAGE 239]

Notes to the financial statements
Other disclosure matters
Key Management Personnel
Key Management Personnel are defined as those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the
activities of Barclays Bank UK PLC (directly or indirectly) and comprise the Directors and Officers of Barclays Bank UK PLC, certain direct
reports of the Chief Executive Officer and the heads of major business units and functions.
The Barclays Bank UK Group provides banking services to Key Management Personnel and persons connected to them. Transactions
during the year and the balances outstanding were as follows:
Loans outstanding
2024 2023
£m £m
As at 1 January 4.2 10.6
Loans issued during the year1 2.7 2.1
Loan repayments during the year2 (3.6) (8.5)
As at 31 December 3.3 4.2
Notes
1 Includes loans issued to existing Key Management Personnel and new or existing loans issued to newly appointed Key Management Personnel.
2 Includes loan repayments by existing Key Management Personnel and loans to former Key Management Personnel.
No allowances for impairment were recognised in respect of loans to Key Management Personnel (or any connected person).
Deposits outstanding
2024 2023
£m £m
As at 1 January 5.1 5.4
Deposits received during the year1 20.4 28.2
Deposits repaid during the year2 (19.8) (28.5)
As at 31 December 5.7 5.1
Notes
1 Includes deposits received from existing Key Management Personnel and new or existing deposits received from newly appointed Key Management
Personnel.
2 Includes deposits repaid by existing Key Management Personnel and deposits of former Key Management Personnel.
Total commitments outstanding
Total commitments outstanding refer to the total of any undrawn amounts on credit card and/or overdraft facilities provided to Key
Management Personnel. Total commitments outstanding as at 31 December 2024 were £0.5m (2023: £0.5m).
All loans to Key Management Personnel (and persons connected to them) were made in the ordinary course of business; were made on
substantially the same terms, including interest rates and collateral, as those prevailing at the same time for comparable transactions with
other persons; and did not involve more than a normal risk of collectability or present other unfavourable features.

[PAGE 240]

Notes to the financial statements
Other disclosure matters
Remuneration of Key Management Personnel
Total remuneration awarded to Key Management Personnel below represents salaries, short term benefits and pensions contributions
received during the year and awards made as part of the latest remuneration decisions in relation to the year. Costs recognised in the
income statement reflect the accounting charge for the year included within operating expenses. The difference between the values
awarded and the recognised income statement charge principally relates to the recognition of costs for deferred awards. Figures are
provided for the period that individuals met the definition of Key Management Personnel.
2024 2023
£m £m
Salaries and other short-term benefits 15.6 15.5
Pension costs 0.2 0.1
Other long-term benefits 2.6 1.2
Share-based payments 3.1 1.9
Employer social security charges on emoluments 2.6 2.6
Costs recognised for accounting purposes 24.1 21.3
Employer social security charges on emoluments (2.6) (2.6)
Other long-term benefits – difference between awards granted and costs recognised 1.0 1.4
Share-based payments – difference between awards granted and costs recognised 0.5 0.7
Total remuneration awarded 23.0 20.8
Disclosure required by the Companies Act 2006
The following information regarding the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board of Directors is presented in accordance with the Companies Act 2006:
2024 2023
£m £m
Aggregate emoluments1 5.3 4.8
Note
1 The aggregate emoluments include amounts paid for the 2024 year. In addition, deferred cash and share awards for 2024 with a total value at grant of
£3.0m (2023: £1.8m) will be made to Directors which will only vest subject to meeting certain conditions.
Pension contributions of £30,000 were paid to defined contribution schemes on behalf of Directors (2023: £7,500). There were no notional
pension contributions to defined contribution schemes.
As at 31 December 2024, there were no Directors accruing benefits under a defined benefit scheme (2023: nil).
The aggregate amount of compensation payable to departing officers in respect of loss of office was £nil (2023: £524,895).
Of the figures in the table above, the amounts attributable to the highest paid Director in respect of qualifying services are as follows:
2024 2023
£m £m
Aggregate emoluments1 1.8 1.8
Note
1 The aggregate emoluments include amounts paid for the 2024 year. In addition, deferred cash and share awards for 2024 with a total value at grant of
£2.2m (2023: £1.1m) will be made to highest paid Director which will only vest subject to meeting certain conditions.
There were no actual pension contributions paid to defined contribution schemes on behalf of the highest paid Director (2023: £nil). There
were no notional pension contributions to defined contribution schemes.
Advances and credit to Directors and guarantees on behalf of Directors
In accordance with Section 413 of the Companies Act 2006, the total amount of advances and credits made available in 2024 to persons
who served as Directors during the year was £0.4m (2023: £0.4m). The total value of guarantees entered into on behalf of Directors during
2024 was £nil (2023: £nil).

[PAGE 241]

Notes to the financial statements
Other disclosure matters
34 Auditor’s remuneration
Auditor’s remuneration is included within consultancy, legal and professional fees in administration and general expenses and comprises:
2024 2023
£m £m
Audit of the Barclays Bank UK Group's annual accounts 14 12
Other services:
Audit of the Company's subsidiaries1 2 1
Other audit related fees2 2 2
Total Auditor's remuneration 18 15
Notes
1 Comprises the fees for the statutory audit of the subsidiaries and fees for the work performed by associates of KPMG in respect of the consolidated financial
statements of the Company.
2 Comprises services in relation to statutory and regulatory filings. These include audit services for the review of the interim financial information under the
Listing Rules of the UK listing authority.
35 Business acquisitions
Accounting for business acquisitions
IFRS 3 establishes principles and requirements for how an acquirer in a business combination:
• recognises and measures in its financial statements the assets and liabilities acquired, and any interest in the acquiree held by other
parties;
• recognises and measures the goodwill acquired in the business combination or a gain from a bargain purchase; and
• determines what information to disclose to enable users of the financial statements to evaluate the nature and financial effects of the
business combination.
In accordance with IFRS 3, a business consists of inputs and processes applied to those inputs that have the ability to contribute to the
creation of outputs.
The core principles in IFRS 3 are that an acquirer measures the cost of the acquisition at the fair value of the consideration paid;
allocates that cost to the acquired identifiable assets and liabilities on the basis of their fair values; allocates the rest of the cost to
goodwill; and recognises any excess of acquired assets and liabilities over the consideration paid (a ‘bargain purchase’) in profit or loss
immediately. The acquirer discloses information that enables users to evaluate the nature and financial effects of the acquisition.
On 1 November 2024, Barclays Bank UK PLC completed the acquisition of Tesco Bank. The acquired business includes credit cards,
unsecured personal loans, deposits and the operating infrastructure (Retail Bank Assets and Liabilities), along with the transfer of c.2,600
employees. The acquisition also includes assets, liabilities, and responsibilities related to a credit card securitisation originated under the
Tesco Bank brand. The acquisition of Tesco Bank by Barclays Bank UK PLC did not involve the acquisition of any equity interests.
In addition to the business acquisition, Barclays Bank UK has entered into a long-term, exclusive strategic partnership with Tesco Stores
Limited for an initial period of 10 years to market and distribute credit cards, unsecured personal loans and deposits using the Tesco PLC
(“Tesco”) brand, as well as explore other opportunities to offer financial services to Tesco customers. Partnering with Tesco, the UK's
largest retailer which also operates the UK's largest loyalty scheme, represents a key opportunity to further our UK retail banking strategic
ambitions. The acquired customer base complements Barclays Bank UK's current business, as well as building on its existing UK strategic
partnerships with other leading retail, consumer electronics and loyalty programme brands. As costs are incurred under this partnership
agreement, these are accounted for in line with Barclays Bank UK group’s relevant accounting policy for such costs.
The acquisition consisted of £4,051m of gross credit card receivables, £4,034m of gross unsecured personal loans, £6,923m of customer
deposits and certain other assets and liabilities for total consideration of £616m in cash. Net assets acquired at completion of the
transaction were £1,173m and a gain on acquisition of £558m has been recognised in the income statement. After acquisition, an expected
credit loss allowance of £209m has been recognised on credit cards and loan receivables along with the associated impairment expense.
Barclays Bank UK PLC will, in the 12 months following the acquisition, continue to assess the fair values of the acquired balances for any
impact of new information regarding conditions that existed as at the acquisition date that would result in a measurement period
adjustment.

[PAGE 242]

Notes to the financial statements
Other disclosure matters
Acquisition of Tesco Bank Retail Bank Assets and Liabilities1
Barclays Bank UK Group Barclays Bank UK PLC
As at acquisition date £m £m
Assets
Cash and balances at central banks 337 337
Cash and collateral and settlement balances 50 50
Loans and advances at amortised cost to customers2 8,085 8,135
Of which:
Credit card receivables 4,051 4,051
Unsecured loan receivables 4,034 4,034
Loans and advances at amortised cost to banks 70 —
Derivative financial instruments 20 20
Goodwill and intangible assets3 83 83
Property, plant and equipment 21 21
Other assets 132 145
Total assets 8,798 8,791
Liabilities
Deposits at amortised cost4 (6,923) (7,470)
Debt securities in issue (554) —
Other liabilities (83) (83)
Provisions (65) (65)
Total liabilities (7,625) (7,618)
Notes
1 This financial information represents the acquisition of the retail banking business of Tesco Bank by the Barclays Bank UK Group and Barclays Bank UK PLC
as at the acquisition date 1 November 2024.
2 Loans and advances at amortised cost acquired includes total credit cards and unsecured loan receivables of £8,085m, recognised initially at fair value at the
point of acquisition and subsequently measured at amortised cost. This represents a gross contractual amount receivable of £8,634m, comprising credit
cards receivables of £4,323m and unsecured loan receivables of £4,311m. After acquisition an expected credit loss allowance of £209m has been
recognised, comprising £133m on credit cards receivables and £76m on unsecured loan receivables, along with the associated impairment expense. The
unsecured loan amount in Barclays Bank UK PLC includes £50m associated with loans under a securitisation arrangement, which is eliminated in the
consolidated financial statements of Barclays Bank UK Group.
3 Intangible assets include £66m of Purchased Credit Cards Receivables (PCCR) and £17m of Core Deposit Intangibles (CDI).
4 Deposits at amortised cost in Barclays Bank UK PLC includes a £554m ‘failed sale liability’ under a securitisation arrangement, which is eliminated in the
consolidated financial statements of Barclays Bank UK Group.
The Barclays Bank UK Group has accounted for the acquisition of Tesco Bank as a business combination using the acquisition method.
Consequently, the Barclays Bank UK Group recognised at fair value all identifiable assets, including those not currently on the Tesco Bank
balance sheet, and assumed liabilities of Tesco Bank, and the Retail Bank Assets and Liabilities on its consolidated balance sheet. There was
no contingent consideration payable in connection with the acquisition. The Barclays Bank UK Group recognised the Retail Bank Assets and
Liabilities as financial assets and liabilities, initially at fair value at the point of acquisition and subsequently at amortised cost. Fair valuation
was performed based on the discounting of future expected cash flows.
In connection with the acquisition of Tesco Bank, Tesco Personal Finance plc agreed to indemnify Barclays Bank UK PLC for certain matters.
An indemnification asset of £91m has been recorded at the acquisition date for this arrangement. Of the £91m balance, £60m relates to
exposures transferred to Barclays Bank UK PLC where there is a present obligation, and it is probable there will be an outflow of resources.
£31m relates to exposures where there is a present obligation, however, it is not probable an outflow of resources will result. The
maximum reimbursement under the indemnity excluding claims relating to PPI is capped at £350m expiring after four years and including
claims related to PPI is capped at £600m.
Since the acquisition date, total operating income of £105m and profit before tax of £37m from the retail banking business of Tesco Bank
have been recognised within the consolidated income statement and the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year
ended 31 December 2024. This excludes the gain recognised on acquisition of £558m and expected credit loss allowance of £209m
recognised subsequently along with the associated impairment expense on credit cards receivables and unsecured loan receivables.
Had the retail banking business of Tesco Bank been acquired from 1 January 2024, additional income of £420m and profit before tax of
£118m would have been recognised. Acquisition-related costs of £18m, mainly attributable to professional and legal fees, have been
recognised as an expense in the consolidated income statement mainly within Administrative and general expenses in the year ended 31
December 2024 (2023: £2m).
36 Barclays Bank UK PLC (the parent company)
The investment in subsidiaries of £495m (December 2023: £495m) predominantly relates to investments in Barclays Insurance Services
Company Limited and Kensington Mortgages Company Limited. There has been no significant movement in the year ending 31 December
2024. During 2023, Barclays Bank UK PLC sold the entire issued share capital of Barclays Asset Management Limited and Barclays
Investment Solutions Limited along with certain other assets and liabilities, business guarantees and business contracts (together with the
transfer of associated employees of Barclays Bank UK PLC) to Barclays Bank PLC. The purchase price for the business transfer was a

[PAGE 243]

Notes to the financial statements
Other disclosure matters
nominal consideration of £3 representing the fair value of the transferring business. The transfer resulted in a reduction in the Investment
in subsidiaries and loss on disposal of £296m in Barclays Bank UK PLC. The loss on disposal for the Barclays Bank UK Group was £124m.
At the end of each reporting period an impairment review is undertaken in respect of investment in subsidiaries. Impairment is indicated
where the investment exceeds the recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is calculated as a value in use (VIU) which is derived from
the present value of future cash flows expected to be received from the investment. The VIU calculation uses future years forecast profits
from financial budgets approved by management as an approximation of future cash flows. In 2023 and 2024, the recoverable amount was
higher than the carrying value of all investments in ordinary shares held by Barclays Bank UK PLC.
37 Related undertakings
The Barclays Bank UK Group’s corporate structure consists of a number of related undertakings, comprising subsidiary undertakings, joint
ventures, associated undertakings and significant holdings. A full list of these related undertakings is set out below, together with the
country of incorporation, registered office (or principal place of business) and the identity and percentage of each share class held by the
Barclays Bank UK Group. The information is provided as at 31 December 2024.
Wholly owned subsidiaries
The related undertakings below are wholly owned and included in the consolidation, and the share capital held by the Barclays Bank UK
Group comprises ordinary shares, which are directly held by Barclays Bank UK PLC. Unless otherwise stated, the Barclays Bank UK Group
holds 100% of the nominal value of each share class.
A. Directly held by Barclays Bank UK PLC
B. Partnership Interest
C. A Ordinary Shares
Wholly owned subsidiaries Note
United Kingdom
1 Churchill Place, London, E14 5HP
Barclays Insurance Services Company Limited A
Barclays SAMS Limited A
FIRSTPLUS Financial Group Limited A
Woolwich Homes Limited A
Ascot House, Maidenhead Office Park, Maidenhead, SL6 3QQ
Kensington Mortgage Company Limited A
Kensington Mortgage Services Limited A
Other Related Undertakings
The related undertakings below are included in the consolidation, and unless otherwise stated the share capital held by the Barclays Bank
UK Group comprises ordinary shares, which are directly held by Barclays Bank UK PLC. The percentage of the nominal value of each share
class/partnership interest held by Barclays Bank UK PLC is provided below.
Other Related Undertakings % Note
United Kingdom
1 Churchill Place, London, E14 5HP
Barclaycard Funding PLC 100.00 A, C
Barclays Covered Bonds Limited Liability Partnership 50.00 A, B
Joint Ventures
The related undertaking below is dealt with as a Joint Venture1 in accordance with s.18, Schedule 4, The Large and Medium-sized
Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 and is proportionally consolidated. The proportion of the capital of the
related undertaking held by Barclays Bank UK PLC is stated below.
Joint Venture % Note
United Kingdom
All Saints Triangle, Caledonian Road, London, N1 9UT
Vaultex UK Limited 50.00 A
Note
1 This is distinct to how the term “joint venture” may be used for the purposes of IFRS.
Joint management factors
The Joint Venture board comprises two Barclays representative directors, two Joint Venture partner directors and two non Joint Venture
partner directors. The Board of Directors is responsible for setting the company strategy and budgets. For IFRS purposes, Vaultex UK
Limited is accounted for as a Joint Operation in the Barclays Bank UK Group financial statements.
The last financial year of the above Joint Venture ended on 6 October 2024. The above Joint Venture has a later publication date with
respect to its annual accounts than that of the Barclays Bank UK Group and, accordingly, information in relation to the average number of
employees employed by such Joint Venture is not yet available.

[PAGE 244]

Notes
The term Barclays Bank UK Group refers to Barclays Bank UK PLC together with its subsidiaries. Unless otherwise stated, the income
statement analysis compares the year ended 31 December 2024 to the corresponding twelve months of 2023 and balance sheet analysis
as at 31 December 2024 with comparatives relating to 31 December 2023. The abbreviations ‘£m’ and ‘£bn’ represent millions and
thousands of millions of Pounds Sterling respectively.
There are a number of key judgement areas, for example impairment calculations, which are based on models and which are subject to
ongoing adjustment and modifications. Reported numbers reflect best estimates and judgements at the given point in time.
Relevant terms that are used in this document but are not defined under applicable regulatory guidance or International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRS) are explained in the results glossary that can be accessed at home.barclays/investor-relations/reports-and-events/latest-
financial-results.
Barclays Bank UK Group is an issuer in the debt capital markets and meets with investors via formal roadshows and other ad hoc meetings.
Consistent with its usual practice, Barclays Bank UK Group expects that from time to time over the coming half year it will meet with
investors to discuss these results and other matters relating to the Barclays Bank UK Group.
Forward-looking statements
This document contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the Barclays Bank UK Group. Barclays cautions readers that no
forward-looking statement is a guarantee of future performance and that actual results or other financial condition or performance
measures could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements can be identified by
the fact that they do not relate only to historical or current facts. Forward-looking statements sometimes use words such as ‘may’, ‘will’,
‘seek’, ‘continue’, ‘aim’, ‘anticipate’, ‘target’, ‘projected’, ‘expect’, ‘estimate’, ‘intend’, ‘plan’, ‘goal’, ‘believe’, ‘achieve’ or other words of
similar meaning. Forward-looking statements can be made in writing but also may be made verbally by directors, officers and employees of
the Barclays Bank UK Group (including during management presentations) in connection with this document. Examples of forward-looking
statements include, among others, statements or guidance regarding or relating to the Barclays Bank UK Group’s future financial position,
business strategy, income levels, costs, assets and liabilities, impairment charges, provisions, capital leverage and other regulatory ratios,
capital distributions (including policy on dividends and share buybacks), return on tangible equity, projected levels of growth in banking
and financial markets, industry trends, any commitments and targets (including environmental, social and governance (ESG) commitments
and targets), plans and objectives for future operations, International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) and other statements that are
not historical or current facts. By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to future events
and circumstances. Forward-looking statements speak only as at the date on which they are made. Forward-looking statements may be
affected by a number of factors, including, without limitation: changes in legislation, regulations, governmental and regulatory policies,
expectations and actions, voluntary codes of practices and the interpretation thereof, changes in IFRS and other accounting standards,
including practices with regard to the interpretation and application thereof and emerging and developing ESG reporting standards; the
outcome of current and future legal proceedings and regulatory investigations; the Barclays Bank UK Group’s ability along with
governments and other stakeholders to measure, manage and mitigate the impacts of climate change effectively or navigate
inconsistencies and conflicts in the manner in which climate policy is implemented in the regions where the Group operates, including as a
result of the adoption of anti-ESG rules; environmental, social and geopolitical risks and incidents and similar events beyond the Barclays
Bank UK Group’s control; financial crime; the impact of competition in the banking and financial services industry; capital, liquidity, leverage
and other regulatory rules and requirements applicable to past, current and future periods; macroeconomic and business conditions,
including inflation, in the UK and in any systemically important economy which impacts the UK; volatility in credit and capital markets;
market related risks such as changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates; reforms to benchmark interest rates and indices; higher
or lower asset valuations; changes in credit ratings of any entity within the Barclays Bank UK Group or any securities issued by it; changes in
counterparty risk; changes in consumer behaviour; the direct and indirect consequences of the conflicts in Ukraine and the Middle East on
European and global macroeconomic conditions, political stability and financial markets; political elections, including the impact of the UK,
European and US elections in 2024; developments in the UK’s relationship with the European Union (“EU”); the risk of cyber-attacks,
information or security breaches, technology failures or operational disruptions and any subsequent impact on the Barclays Bank UK
Group’s reputation, business or operations; the Barclays Bank UK Group’s ability to access funding; and the success of acquisitions
(including the acquisition of Tesco Bank completed in November 2024), disposals and other strategic transactions. A number of these
factors are beyond the Barclays Bank UK Group’s control. As a result, the Barclays Bank UK Group’s actual financial position, results,
financial and non-financial metrics or performance measures or its ability to meet commitments and targets may differ materially from the
statements or guidance set forth in the Barclays Bank UK Group’s forward-looking statements. Additional risks and factors which may
impact the Barclays Bank UK Group’s future financial condition and performance are identified in the description of material existing and
Subject to Barclays Bank UK PLC's obligations under the applicable laws and regulations of any relevant jurisdiction, (including, without
limitation, the UK), in relation to disclosure and ongoing information, we undertake no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-
looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.