
--- PAGE 1 ---
Helping
Britain
Prosper
Lloyds Banking Group plc
Annual Review 2024

--- PAGE 2 ---
Our purpose is
Helping Britain
Prosper
Our vision Our strategy
To be the UK customer-focused Our purpose-driven strategy is
digital leader and integrated focused on supporting the needs
financial services provider, of our customers, colleagues and
capitalising on new opportunities, communities, whilst delivering
at scale. long-term, sustainable returns and
creating value for our shareholders.
Our strategic priorities See annual report and accounts pages 16 to 25
Grow Focus Change
Drive revenue Strengthen Maximise the
growth and cost and capital potential of people,
diversification efficiency technology and data
Our strategic outcomes
We successfully completed
the first phase of Delivered 2024 guidance Increased confidence for 2026
our strategy, building • £0.8bn additional revenues • >£1.5bn additional revenues
broad momentum across from strategic initiatives from strategic initiatives
our businesses.
• £1.2bn gross cost savings • <50% cost:income ratio
We are well positioned
• 12.3% RoTE (14.0% excluding • >15% RoTE
to deliver our core
strategic objectives motor finance provision) • >200bps capital generation
and 2026 guidance. • 148bps capital generation
(177bps excluding motor
finance provision)

--- PAGE 3 ---
In this report
For over 325 years we have
supported Britain, helping people
and businesses invest and grow
Chair’s statement 02 This annual review incorporates the
Group Chief Executive’s review 04 Strategic Report which forms part of the
Our business model 08 2024 annual report and accounts along with
Our external environment 12 certain consolidated financial information,
Our strategy 16 some information about the Board of
Our key performance indicators 26 Directors, detail on remuneration as well
Our colleagues 30 as some general shareholder information.
Risk overview 33
On behalf of the Board
Viability statement and going concern 39
Section 172(1) statement 40
Climate-related financial disclosures and TCFD 42
Non-financial and sustainability
information statement 44 Sir Robin Budenberg
Chair, Lloyds Banking Group plc
Shareholder information 45
19 February 2025
Our Board 46
Directors’ remuneration report 48
Results for the full year 52
Forward-looking statements 54
Our reporting To supplement our statutory results, we
use a number of alternative performance
Our reporting suite is measures. Unless otherwise stated,
Building a
designed to facilitate better commentary within the strategic report
is given on an underlying basis. Further sustainable and
communication to a range
information is set out on page 314 of the inclusive future
of stakeholders. annual report and accounts.
Our annual report and accounts provides Our wider reporting suite including our SuLsltoayindasb Biaitnyk Rinegp oGrrto 2u0p24
disclosures relating to our strategic, sustainability report provides additional
financial, operational, environmental and information and disclosures. These See our full reporting
social performance and provides detail on are available online, and referenced suite including our
sustainability report
our strategy. throughout this report and the 2024 on the Investors page
annual report and accounts. To access of our website.
It also contains forward-looking statements
more content on a mobile device, point
relating to the Group’s future financial
your camera at the QR codes seen
condition, performance, results, strategic
throughout this report.
initiatives and objectives.
Lloyds Banking Group plc Annual Review 2024
01

--- PAGE 4 ---
We have successfully
completed the first phase
of our strategic plan
By laying strong foundations, we are well positioned
for sustained growth and enhanced value creation
as we move into the next phase.
Growing our digital
presence and enhancing
customer experience
As the UK’s largest digital bank, we serve 28 million
customers with around 23 million digitally active users of
which more than 20 million use our leading mobile app. Our
brands touch nearly every community and household in the
UK. During peak times, we have around 28,000 logons per
minute, with more than 6 billion logons during 2024. We are
one of the most used digital services in any industry.
In 2024, responding to customer feedback, we launched
our re-imagined Lloyds mobile app with dedicated,
product-based spaces showcasing features and tools. For
example, Ready-Made Investments, which has 40 per cent
of customers under the age of 35 contributing regularly to
investment products, and our Benefit Calculator, which
empowers customers to identify support they might be
eligible for.
Our ability to adapt and evolve to meet changing customer
expectations means we continually enhance functionality
and speed to market, improving the digital journey for our
customers by creating services and features they need.
c.23m
digitally active users,
exceeding our 2024 ambition
Grow

--- PAGE 5 ---
Focus
Focusing on cost and
capital efficiency
During the first phase of our strategic plan,
we have accelerated adoption of new
technologies, supporting a 17.5 per cent reduction
in legacy technology applications and a greater
than 30 per cent reduction in data centres. This
has helped us improve automation and efficiency
across the organisation, with distribution
colleagues now serving over 30 per cent more
active customers, delivering both improved
customer outcomes and cost savings.
We have also taken action to deliver a more capital
>30%
efficient business, with consistent strong capital
generation. This includes growing in fee generating
business areas and building new capabilities in
increase in active areas such as securitised risk transfers. As a result,
we realised around £18 billion of risk-weighted
customers served
asset optimisation in the first phase of our
per distribution FTE strategic plan, mitigating regulatory headwinds.
Change
Empowering
our colleagues
for change
Our strategy is allowing us to prepare our Group for
the future, by creating an inclusive environment that
supports our colleagues’ growth and development.
Reskilling our colleagues allows us to retain talent,
increase productivity and drive innovation.
In 2024, our reskilling initiatives helped colleagues
>4,000 develop the core skills needed for their current and
future roles whilst strengthening the Group’s
workforce. We have also recruited over 4,000 new
colleagues into technology and data roles to drive
new hires into technology
growth and efficiency during the first phase of
and data roles our strategy.

--- PAGE 6 ---
Chair’s statement
We remain fully focused
on supporting customers,
whilst delivering strong
strategic progress and
sustainable returns, guided
by our purpose of Helping
Britain Prosper.
Read full biography
Aligning
purpose with
profitability
Sir Robin Budenberg Chair
Lloyds Banking Group plc Annual Review 2024
02

--- PAGE 7 ---
2024 has been another year of significant progress for Lloyds We enter the second phase of the strategy with momentum across
Banking Group. We have continued to invest and transform the the business and remain confident in achieving our 2026 strategic
business, delivering innovative new products and services for our outcomes and financial guidance.
customers. At the same time we navigated a complex external
environment while maintaining our commitment to customers, Culture
communities and shareholders. The Board and senior management have a vital role to play in
shaping, role modelling and embedding a healthy corporate culture.
We recognise that the recent Court of Appeal ruling regarding motor
This continued to be a focus in 2024. Our business insights help
finance has created uncertainty for customers and shareholders
shape our focus on inclusion and commerciality. We continue
alike. The Group continues to assess the potential impacts of this
to measure our progress on gender, ethnic minorities and our
ruling and would hope to have greater clarity soon.
colleagues with disabilities. Setting out clear ambitions that
The Group has successfully completed the first phase of our enable us to measure our progress is important, both as a signal of
five-year purpose-driven strategy and delivered robust financial commitment and intent, and because it provides focus and means
results in 2024. There have been a number of notable achievements, that inclusion is approached like any other business issue.
as identified below.
This year we are the highest-ranked bank (5th) in the FTSE 100 in the
Shareholder returns FTSE Women Leaders Review (February 2024 report) for women on
Boards and in leadership. We have achieved all of the FTSE Women
Attractive capital returns are critical to our shareholders. We were
Leaders recommendations ahead of the 2025 deadline. Whilst we
pleased to be able to increase the total ordinary dividend again,
are pleased with the progress we have made, we recognise that we
by 15 per cent to 3.17 pence, whilst also announcing a further share
are not yet where we want to be and have more to do to achieve
buyback of £1.7 billion. In total we have made a distribution of
gender balance in our organisation.
£3.6 billion for 2024.
As we reflect on all the great work we have done to support Black
Purpose-driven strategy heritage customers, communities and colleagues, this support
The Group has purpose at its core. Our commitment to Helping hasn’t yet achieved its full potential for our colleagues. Currently
Britain Prosper enables us to meet customers’ holistic financial 1.8 per cent of senior colleagues are of Black heritage against a goal of
services needs, whilst delivering sustainable profit and growth for 3 per cent by 2025. We continue to build our understanding of how
shareholders. These aims support each other, and our strategy we can unlock further potential in this space. Meanwhile, we are
balances them effectively. pleased to have surpassed our ambition of having 12 per cent of senior
roles filled by colleagues with disabilities ahead of time, with current
Having successfully completed the first phase of our strategy, I am
representation at 16.1 per cent. Inclusion remains a focus area for our
pleased with the strategic progress being made. I am delighted to
business as it’s important for us to reflect our customers and the
report that we have delivered £0.8 billion of additional revenues in
society in which we operate especially given our scale and reach.
2024 from our strategic initiatives, surpassing our initial target of
c.£0.7 billion.
Directors
I am really proud of the increased pace of delivery and provision of We review the Board’s composition and diversity regularly and are
digitally enabled services and solutions for our customers, which committed to ensuring we have the right balance of skills and
helps increase financial empowerment. This exciting progress spans experience within the Board.
the entire Group.
As announced previously, Alan Dickinson and Lord Lupton stepped
Our consumer lending teams are simplifying credit score management down following the AGM in May 2024. In August 2024, Nathan
and mortgage journeys. Our consumer relationships teams are Bostock joined the Board as a non-executive director and also
redesigning the app experience for Lloyds customers and are preparing became Chair of Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets plc. Nathan’s
to launch a new brand experience for Halifax and Bank of Scotland financial services experience and UK banking market knowledge
next year. Our insurance, pension and investment colleagues are are invaluable to the Group.
rethinking how customers engage with their future, while our business
and commercial banking teams are enhancing digital servicing and Remuneration
origination, enabling customers to meet their needs more easily. Our
We know that as we deliver the next phase of our strategy it is
corporate and institutional banking teams are providing valuable
vital that we are able to attract and retain talent and reward our
insights into customer retail network usage and leveraging our
colleagues appropriately. All awards are determined by the Board’s
understanding of the UK economy to benefit our clients.
Remuneration Committee following careful consideration and aligned
Once again, I am hugely proud of how our colleagues helped to make with market conditions, the changing regulatory framework, Group
a real difference in 2024. Consistent with our purpose, our actions performance and the sentiment of our shareholders. You can read
across the Group are supporting our aim to provide strong, sustainable more about our remuneration approach on page 110 of the annual
communities, high-quality infrastructure and regional regeneration. report and accounts.
Providing a full range of housing options for our communities is a
Summary
core priority for the Group and during 2024 we have taken a number
We’re proud that we’ve delivered on the commitments we set out in
of actions, including:
2022 for the first phase of our strategic plan, further strengthening
• Getting more people on the housing ladder by lending more than
our track record of consistent performance. We have continued to
£15 billion to first-time buyers
deliver in line with our purpose of Helping Britain Prosper and see
• Expanding the availability of affordable homes by supporting
further opportunities to contribute to sustainable economic growth.
more than £2 billion of new funding to the social housing sector
Our financial results continue to demonstrate resilience, with strong
Climate risk and the green economy are changing the way we live,
capital generation and good shareholder distributions. Looking ahead,
work and do business. We are committed to enabling the transition
we need to continue to change and transform the Group. Building on
to net zero by working closely with our clients. Since 2022, we
the strong progress to date, we are confident in our ability to achieve
provided more than £20 billion for sustainable financing in EPC A
higher, more sustainable returns and capital generation by 2026.
and B mortgage lending and financing for electric vehicles and
plug-in hybrid vehicles for retail customers, surpassing our aggregate
target for these activities of £18 billion.
Sir Robin Budenberg
Chair
Lloyds Banking Group plc Annual Review 2024
03

--- PAGE 8 ---
Group Chief Executive’s review
We have successfully
delivered the first phase
of our strategy, creating
value for our stakeholders
and enhancing the Group’s
financial performance.
Read full biography
Delivering
sustainable growth
and returns
Charlie Nunn Group Chief Executive
Lloyds Banking Group plc Annual Review 2024
04

--- PAGE 9 ---
2024 was a significant year for the Group. We continued to fulfil As evidence of the strength of our franchise, the Group’s balance
our purpose of Helping Britain Prosper, supporting our customers, sheet grew in the year, with underlying loans and advances to
shareholders and wider stakeholders. We have successfully customers increasing by £9.4 billion to £459.1 billion. This reflected
completed the first chapter of our ambitious purpose-driven growth across Retail, including mortgages and unsecured loans.
strategy. Our transformation is delivering at pace with tangible Customer deposits of £482.7 billion significantly increased
progress on building our franchise and enhancing our change in the year, by £11.3 billion, including growth in Retail deposits
capabilities, leveraging data and technology to drive both growth of £11.3 billion alongside stable Commercial Banking deposits.
and efficiency. We are significantly enhancing our customer
The Group delivered strong capital generation of 148 basis points
propositions across the Group and returning the business to growth.
(177 basis points excluding the motor finance provision) and a pro
These developments and continued business momentum position
forma CET1 ratio of 13.5 per cent. This is after £3.6 billion of
us well to deliver stronger, more sustainable returns as we head into
shareholder distributions including an increased ordinary dividend
the next phase of our strategy.
and further announced share buyback of up to £1.7 billion.
Alongside our strategic progress, we delivered a robust financial
performance in 2024. As expected, income grew in the second Guiding purpose of Helping Britain Prosper
half of the year, supported by a rising banking net interest margin, We have an important role to play in creating a more sustainable
lending growth and momentum in other income. We have and inclusive future for people and businesses across the UK,
maintained discipline on costs, despite the inflationary backdrop. shaping finance as a force for good. Our purpose is evident across
Asset quality remains strong. our franchise in all of our business areas as we seek to help our
customers realise their financial ambitions. It is also highlighted
In the fourth quarter we took an additional £700 million provision
in particular areas where we can drive positive change at scale,
for the potential remediation costs relating to motor finance
creating value for all of our stakeholders.
commission arrangements. This is in light of the Court of Appeal
judgment on Wrench, Johnson and Hopcraft that goes beyond As a leading commercial supporter of social housing, we are working
the scope of the original FCA motor finance commissions review. to help every UK household access quality and affordable housing.
The provision reflects a probability weighted scenario based As part of this journey, we are calling for 1 million affordable new
methodology incorporating a number of inputs. Clearly significant homes by the end of the decade. Since 2018 we have supported
uncertainty remains around the final financial impact. In this around £20 billion of funding to the social housing sector. Alongside,
context we welcome the expedited Supreme Court hearing our colleagues have raised over £3 million since we started our
at the beginning of April. partnership with the housing charity Crisis.
Despite the additional provision for motor finance commission Given our importance to the UK economy, we are deeply involved
arrangements we remain highly committed to shareholder in supporting a more sustainable future by supporting the UK
distributions. Our robust performance and strong capital position transition to net zero. Our strategy to progress to net zero by 2050
and generation has enabled the Board to recommend a final ordinary represents a strategic and commercial opportunity, consistent with
dividend of 2.11 pence per share, resulting in a total dividend for the our purpose of Helping Britain Prosper.
year of 3.17 pence. This is up 15 per cent on the prior year, in line with
In 2024, we continued to support customers in their transition as
our progressive and sustainable ordinary dividend policy. In addition,
well as making strong progress against our sustainability goals. Since
the Group has announced its intention to implement a share buyback
2022 we have completed £11.4 billion of EPC A and B mortgage
programme of up to £1.7 billion, as we continue to distribute excess
lending, compared to our original target of £10 billion, and delivered
capital to shareholders. This is in line with our target to pay down to
more than £9 billion of financing and leasing for EVs. In Insurance,
13.5 per cent CET1 ratio by the end of 2024.
Pensions and Investments (IP&I) we met our cumulative target of
We are building momentum as we now move into the second phase investing £20 to £25 billion in climate-aware strategies a year early.
of our strategic plan. We are continuing to create innovative new In Commercial Banking we delivered £10.7 billion of sustainable
products for our customers. More broadly, as the largest UK bank, financing in 2024, in line with our target of £30 billion from 2024
the successful execution of our purpose-driven strategy is helping to 2026.
to meet commitments across key societal challenges such as
Moving forward, we continue to challenge ourselves. We have set
infrastructure, energy transition, housing and pensions. Our talented
new targets for a further £11 billion of EPC A and B mortgages and
colleagues are critical to our transformation and I am very pleased
£10 billion of EV financing by 2027. Alongside, we continue to work
to see engagement increase in 2024 in the context of a period of
on the decarbonisation of our business as we work to achieve net
significant change.
zero in our own operations by 2030.
Robust financial performance
First phase of purpose-driven strategy
and consistent delivery
complete, building strong momentum
As said, the Group delivered a robust financial performance in 2024.
Our vision is to become a customer-focused digital leader and
Statutory profit after tax was £4.5 billion. Underlying profit was
integrated financial services provider, able to capitalise on new
£6.3 billion with net income down 5 per cent, operating costs up
opportunities at scale. This will drive higher, more sustainable
3 per cent and higher remediation and underlying impairment
returns for our shareholders.
charges. Robust net income of £17.1 billion included a resilient
banking net interest margin of 2.95 per cent, in line with guidance, In 2024 we completed the first chapter of our strategic plan,
and 9 per cent growth in underlying other income, offset by higher returning the business to growth and generating £0.8 billion of
operating lease depreciation. Operating costs of £9.4 billion, in additional revenues from our strategic initiatives, surpassing our
line with guidance, reflected cost efficiencies helping to partially target of c.£0.7 billion. Our strategy has helped support almost
offset inflationary pressures, business growth costs and ongoing £2 billion of net income growth from 2021 to 2024. We have
strategic investment. Remediation costs of £899 million in the year maintained discipline on costs, with £1.2 billion of gross cost savings
(2023: £675 million), include the £700 million previously referenced helping to offset higher investments and inflationary pressures.
in relation to motor finance, alongside £199 million charges in relation We have also de-risked the business and reduced claims on capital
to pre-existing programmes. We continue to see strong asset quality, by, for example, addressing the pension deficit, securitising legacy
with improved credit performance in the year. The asset quality ratio, higher risk mortgage assets and dealing with significant in default
including the benefit from improved economic assumptions, was situations. We have transformed our capabilities by modernising
10 basis points. Overall, this resulted in a return on tangible equity of our technology estate and radically reforming our operations
12.3 per cent, or 14.0 per cent excluding the motor finance provision. function to deliver more change more efficiently.
Lloyds Banking Group plc Annual Review 2024
05

--- PAGE 10 ---
Group Chief Executive’s review continued
When we launched the strategy we committed to a number of 2024
Our performance
strategic outcomes to support our ambitions and evidence our
Robust financial performance with progress. We have successfully delivered on these targets, meeting
around 80 per cent of them, with a significant proportion materially
continued business momentum and ahead of the original target. For example, since 2021 we have
increased depth of relationship by 5 per cent and grown our
strong strategic progress.
Corporate and Institutional Banking (CIB) other income by more
than 30 per cent, versus our original target of more than 20 per cent.
We have grown in high-value areas, with more than 15 per cent
growth in Mass Affluent banking balances. We have remained
focused on cost efficiency, reducing legacy applications by
17.5 per cent and our office footprint by more than 30 per cent.
We are enabling the franchise, having migrated around 50 per cent
of applications onto the cloud and reduced data centres by more
than 30 per cent.
Delivering broad-based growth
Business growth has been achieved through a number of levers. We
have grown the core franchise, increasing our flow share in mortgages
and improving our share of balances in Retail current accounts. We
have deepened relationships with existing customers, transforming
engagement through new and enhanced propositions, such as in
investments and mass affluent, enabling us to meet more of our
customers’ needs. We are growing in high-value areas, including
targeted sectors within Commercial Banking such as infrastructure.
We are driving cross-Group collaboration by connecting customers
with offerings across our franchise for example increased protection
12.3% 148bps penetration in mortgage new business.
Growth has been facilitated by leveraging our digital leadership. This
starts with our refreshed mobile app that, with over 20 million users
and over 6 billion annual logins, up by 50 per cent since 2021, creates
RoTE capital generation a platform for innovative new propositions that drive a competitive
advantage. For example, Your Credit Score now has over 11 million
(14.0 per cent (177 basis points
users and has helped over 780,000 customers improve their credit
excluding excluding motor
score in 2024. It has also enabled the pre-approval of customers for
motor finance finance provision) different forms of credit, significantly improving our loan conversion
provision) rate by 15 per cent. Ready-Made Investments is another example of
a new proposition gaining strong traction with our customers. The
investment tool is bespoke to each customer’s risk appetite and
makes investing easier and more accessible. We are seeing great
take-up, particularly among younger generations, with around
40 per cent of customers under the age of 35.
The successful execution of our first strategic phase means we
c.80%
exceeded our target and delivered £0.8 billion of additional income
from strategic initiatives by 2024. We are building momentum as
we aim to unlock further growth in the period to 2026. We are now
targeting over £1.5 billion of additional strategic initiative income by
2024 strategic
2026, of which half will be other income.
outcomes
As part of our ambition, in Retail we will deliver market leading
delivered customer journeys and expanded propositions, while continuing to
accelerate the shift to mobile-first by creating more personalised
digital experiences. By 2026 we aim to further improve customer
depth of relationship by 3 per cent versus 2024. We will continue to
target high-value areas, growing Mass Affluent total relationship
balances by more than 10 per cent. In Retail lending we will continue
to enhance our homes proposition, including by retaining £8.5 billion
mortgages in 2026 through our innovative homes ecosystem,
alongside expanding our unsecured offering and maintaining our
£1.2bn £0.8bn Transport market share at more than 15 per cent.
In Commercial we will further broaden CIB solutions, meeting more
transaction banking and market needs with continued balance
sheet discipline. We are targeting CIB other income growth
gross cost savings additional revenues
of around 45 per cent by 2026 versus 2021. In Business and
mitigating from strategic Commercial Banking (BCB) we are aiming to build the best digitally
investment and initiatives exceeding led relationship bank. By scaling digital servicing we will maintain
deposit share and grow in valuable sectors with broader needs,
inflationary our target
such as manufacturing, driving a more than 10 per cent increase
pressures of c.£0.7 billion in transaction banking and working capital income by 2026.
Lloyds Banking Group plc Annual Review 2024
06

--- PAGE 11 ---
In IP&I we are unlocking the potential of the bancassurance model We are making strong progress on our purpose-led strategy.
to deliver innovative digital solutions and expanded propositions. We have generated £0.8 billion of additional revenues from strategic
We aim to scale our digital waterfront to over 1.5 million customers initiatives as we return the business to growth. We are transforming
by 2026, whilst improving Group connectivity to drive growth in our franchise through innovative propositions and enhanced
high-value areas, such as ranking in the top three for Protection capabilities. This gives us confidence in further business growth and
by 2025 and growing Workplace assets under administration. our ambition to generate more than £1.5 billion in additional income
In our Equity Investments business we are continuing to invest from our strategic initiatives by 2026 whilst remaining disciplined
in fast growing UK SMEs through LDC’s unique model. We are around costs and capital. We are progressing well towards delivering
also supporting the UK rental sector by scaling Lloyds Living, higher, more sustainable returns for shareholders.
our homes rental business.
2025 guidance
Transforming capabilities to drive growth
Based on our current macroeconomic assumptions,
and operating leverage
for 2025 the Group expects:
In order to deliver our growth ambitions, our strategy is to maximise
• Underlying net interest income of c.£13.5 billion
the potential of our people, technology and data. We have hired
• Operating costs of c.£9.7 billion
more than 4,000 colleagues across data and tech who are
• Asset quality ratio to be c.25 basis points
accelerating our technology modernisation. This transformation
• Return on tangible equity of c.13.5 per cent
of capabilities is unlocking operating leverage and helped us deliver
• Capital generation of c.175 basis points1
the £1.2 billion of targeted gross cost savings, including around
£300 million of change efficiencies. For example, improvements in
2026 guidance
digital servicing mean that more than 70 per cent of new Business
Based on the expected macroeconomic environment and confidence
Banking and SME lending decisions are now automated. As a further
in our strategy, the Group maintains its guidance for 2026:
example of productivity enhancement we increased the number of
• Cost:income ratio of less than 50 per cent
active customers served per FTE by more than 30 per cent.
• Return on tangible equity of greater than 15 per cent
Looking forward, we will continue to hire new engineering talent,
• Capital generation of greater than 200 basis points1
scale cloud adoption and accelerate decommissioning activity. This
• To pay down to a CET1 ratio of c.13.0 per cent
will allow us to continue to adopt new technologies that deliver a
step-change in our capabilities. This includes our aspirations for Gen
1 Excluding capital distributions. Inclusive of ordinary dividends received from the
AI, for which we have created a centre of excellence including around
Insurance business in February of the following year.
200 data scientists and engineers. We are developing use cases such
as our knowledge support tool currently being rolled out to 10,000
colleagues across the Group and an AI-driven money management
tool for our Mass Affluent customers. These initiatives will generate
further efficiencies as well as create opportunities for growth.
Together, they drive operating leverage, helping towards our target Charlie Nunn
of a cost:income ratio of less than 50 per cent by 2026. Group Chief Executive
Purpose in action
Supporting the
UK housing
Read more about
social housing
market
The Group is one of the largest housing finance
providers with a mortgage book of more than
£300 billion and a major supporter of the UK
housing sector. We are committed to expanding
the availability and affordability of safe, quality
and sustainable housing.
We are uniquely placed to enact change
and want to play our role in creating a more
sustainable and inclusive UK society through
access to better housing.
Across the UK, a chronic shortfall in social
housing contributes to various socio-economic
challenges in our communities. Committed
to Helping Britain Prosper, we are one of the
biggest supporters of social housing and the
wider housing sector.
Citizen Housing, a social housing provider,
addresses pressing issues around housing and
homelessness. We have supported them with
£75 million for development, regeneration, and
sustainability plans, aiming to build over 2,000
new homes in the next four years.
Lloyds Banking Group plc Annual Review 2024
07

--- PAGE 12 ---
Our business model
Our business model
focuses on supporting
customers whilst delivering
sustainable growth
and returns
Our purpose Our vision
Helping Britain Prosper. To be the UK customer-focused
We do this by creating a more digital leader and integrated
sustainable and inclusive future financial services provider,
for people and businesses, shaping capitalising on new opportunities,
finance as a force for good. at scale.
Our values
People-first Bold Inclusive Sustainable Trust
We listen and We innovate and do We learn about and We take We give each other
care for people things differently to embrace our responsibility for the the space and
as individuals. better serve our differences, and impact of our support to take
customers and grow seek out diverse actions on nature things on and see
with purpose. perspectives. and Britain’s them through.
transition to
net zero.
Lloyds Banking Group plc Annual Review 2024
08

--- PAGE 13 ---
What we do
We have three core divisions that have been
structured to serve our customers’ needs effectively
Insurance,
Commercial
Retail Pensions and
Banking
Investments
Consumer lending Insurance Business and
• Mortgages • Home, motor, pet commercial banking
• Credit cards • Protection
• Business loans
• Personal loans
• Transactional banking
• Motor finance Pensions and retirement
• Working capital
• Workplace pensions • Merchant services
Consumer relationships • Direct to customer pensions
• Current accounts • Retirement Corporate and
• Savings accounts
institutional banking
• Mass affluent proposition Investments
• Lending and debt capital markets
• Ready-made investments
• Cash liquidity
• Share dealing
• Risk management
See annual report and accounts page 72 See annual report and accounts page 74 See annual report and accounts page 73
Our competitive advantages
Leading UK customer franchise Operating at scale with cost discipline Financial strength and
with deep customer insight Our scale and efficiency enable us to robust risk management
28 million customers with extensive operate and invest more effectively. Strong capital position. Continue
reach across the UK. Customer data and to take a robust approach to risk,
analysis ensures we can meet the needs Focused and capital as reflected through the quality of our
of these customers more effectively. generative business model portfolio and underwriting criteria.
Allowing significant investment while
All-channel distribution focus with generating an attractive capital return Dedicated colleagues
digital leadership and trusted brands for shareholders. with strong values
Operating through a range of brands Highly engaged, skilled, customer
and distribution channels, including Innovation through focused, diverse workforce with
the UK’s largest digital bank. modern technology significant expertise and experience.
Continued investment in our technology
Unique customer proposition platform, apps and change function
Serving all our customers’ banking, enables us to innovate to anticipate
investment and insurance needs and meet customers’ needs.
through a comprehensive product range.
Our trusted brands
Lloyds Banking Group plc Annual Review 2024
09

--- PAGE 14 ---
Our business model continued
We serve our customers’
How we do it
needs effectively with:
We are Helping Britain Prosper in a way
t W p h ro e a t d d u d o c e t t l h i s v i a e s n r b s d y s s u c e o s r t n v a t i i c i n n e a u s b a w l l e l e y p o i r n f o n f f e o i r t v , a d a n t e i d v n e g r l e o t t h p u e i r n n g s . n o v a ti o a n n d , d i n e f v l u e e lo n H p ce
men
e
t
lping P a r n o d d s u o c l t u s t , i o s n e s rv ic e s
n
and investing in new solutions, and using I
Britain
our expertise and influence to create
positive change.
Prosper
F
Our impact a n u n d d e in x g p , i e n r v t e is s e tm ent busi S n u e c s c s e p s e sf r u f l or m a n c e
Sustainable and inclusive growth
Customers Colleagues Communities
We provide financial services We are committed to building Our success is intrinsically linked
to over half of the UK adult an inclusive and sustainable with the success of all regions
population and more than organisation that is truly across the whole of the UK.
one million businesses. representative of our customers
When local people, local businesses,
in modern-day Britain.
By meeting our customers’ and their communities prosper,
needs we’re unlocking growth We recognise that colleagues so do we.
and transforming the Group. who can be their authentic selves
at work are central to our success.
>£15bn 40.4% >£2bn
of funding for first-time of our senior roles were held new funding supported in the
buyers in 2024 by women in 2024 social housing sector in 2024
>£10bn 12.6% >£35m
of sustainable finance provided of our senior roles held by Black, donated to our Charitable
for Commercial Banking Asian or Minority Ethnic Foundations in 2024
customers in 2024 colleagues in 2024
Lloyds Banking Group plc Annual Review 2024
10

--- PAGE 15 ---
Innovation, Products, Successful Funding,
development, services and business investment
influence solutions performance and expertise
Driving innovation through Offering a comprehensive Delivering sustainable profit Ongoing investment in the
effective use of customer range of financial products and growth provides business ensures we can meet
feedback, technology and and services, increasingly financial strength whilst the evolving needs of our
data ensures we remain through digital channels. ensuring we can invest customers in a commercial
relevant to the customer We tailor these offerings to for the future (both in the way. Our significant funding
whilst enhancing industry meet individual and business business and customer helps people and businesses
standards. Our commitment needs, ensuring customers propositions) whilst returning invest and grow whilst
to digital transformation have access to the right capital to our owners. our expertise and tailored
is critical for future growth financial solutions. solutions help clients navigate
and sustainability. financial challenges, fostering
success and sustainability.
Sustainable profit and returns
Shareholders
We successfully completed the first
phase of our ambitious and purpose-
driven strategy, exceeding our revenue
target and transforming our capabilities
as we returned the business to growth.
The Group’s robust financial
performance has delivered
strong capital generation,
enabling an increased dividend
and £1.7 billion buyback.
“We’re transforming our business
3.17p
to shape finance as a force for good
and deliver for Britain for
generations to come.” total ordinary dividend
per share for 2024, up 15 per cent
Charlie Nunn Group Chief Executive
£3.6bn
returned to shareholders
for 2024
Lloyds Banking Group plc Annual Review 2024
11

--- PAGE 16 ---
Our external environment
External context,
opportunities and risks
Link to strategy
Grow Focus Change
Market context
The UK economy recovered somewhat from its pause in the
second half of 2023. Households’ spending power is rising and the
unemployment rate remains low. The new Government aims to
boost growth through increased investment and a constructive
Economy
regulatory backdrop. Global conflicts and threats to global trade
integration remain headwinds.
Impact
Subdued growth in our key markets in 2024, although improving:
• House prices up 3 per cent, housing transactions up 7 per cent
and mortgage balances up 1.5 per cent
• Consumer credit balances up 4.9 per cent, back above their
pre-pandemic level
• Household deposit balances up 5.2 per cent
Link to strategy • Lending to non-financial companies up 3.6 per cent, with
SMEs still paying down pandemic Government-guarantee
scheme balances
• Non-financial companies’ deposits up 1.2 per cent
Market context
Customers are preferring more convenient and personalised financial
solutions provided through digital channels. Customers are
proactively seeking to make their money ‘work harder’ through
managing their savings, pensions and investments more proactively.
Customers
Although cost-of-living pressures continue, overall household deposit
balances continue to strengthen.
Impact
• Reducing interest rates are supporting an improved outlook for
mortgage holders to refinance, with two thirds of the market
now refinanced onto higher rates
Link to strategy
• Increasingly, embedded finance and ecosystems are delivering
convenient digital solutions at customers’ point of need
Market context
Major banks and building societies are consolidating and expanding
through acquisitions, with renewed focus on UK growth. Alongside,
neobanks and fintechs are diversifying their financial services
offerings to meet a broader range of needs. As an alternative
Competitors
financing option to traditional banking lending, private credit
is also gaining traction amongst institutions and small business.
Impact
• Opportunity to deepen customer relationships through
personalised customer journeys
• With the intensified competition within the UK market, there
are ongoing margin pressures in deposit and mortgage markets
Link to strategy • Neobanks and fintechs are disrupting traditional banking models
via seamless digital experience and widening product breadth
• Banks are increasingly opting to partner with private credit firms
in debt provision
Lloyds Banking Group plc Annual Review 2024
12

--- PAGE 17 ---
We’ve built our business and strategy in response to the fast
pace of change in our external environment and to adapt
to ever-evolving stakeholder needs. This helps ensure the
Group is resilient over the longer term and can capitalise
on opportunities and manage risks as they emerge.
Our response UK economic 0.8%
In a positive or more challenging macroeconomic environment, our business growth
model and strategy position us well, in particular the strength of our % GDP growth
customer franchise, our scale and balance sheet, and our prudent approach
to risk. Our strategy and transformation, combined with further efficiency
improvements, will deliver profit growth, diversification and resilience.
2025 outlook
UK growth boost from Government spending plans largely offset
by a toughening global environment:
• GDP growth expected to improve gradually
• Inflation expected to remain above the 2 per cent target,
limiting the pace at which the Bank of England reduces interest rates
(10.3) 8.6 4.8 0.4 0.8
• House prices expected to rise by around 2 per cent
• Growth in most of our markets is expected to improve further,
2020 2021 2022 2023 2024
although of a measured pace
Our response Digitally active 22.7m
• Refreshed our brand and enhanced our mobile app with streamlined users
savings, borrowing and protection features m
• Our ready-made products have helped customers to invest more
easily and start saving for their pension
• A more seamless onboarding process for business and
commercial customers
2025 outlook
• Launch redesigned mobile banking apps for Halifax and Bank of
Scotland customers
• Enhance Money Management capabilities through more customisable
spending insights improving customer experience
17.4 18.3 19.8 21.5 22.7
• Further design improvements to Lloyds’ mobile app
• Enhance our Virtual Assistant automation capabilities to fulfil more
2020 2021 2022 2023 2024
customer demand
Our response Mortgage 19.9%
• Deepen customer relationships through tailored propositions market share
• Develop an investment and savings digital waterfront tailored by total gross
channel to support customers, colleagues and advisers lending – flow
• Provide market-leading journeys across direct and intermediary
channels, for example, home buying journeys in our home ecosystem
2025 outlook
• Create seamless access to relevant propositions to the customer’s life
stage to become a holistic proposition provider
• Integration of Mass Affluent proposition to other parts of the Group,
for example, testing the provision of Financial Coaching for
Workplace Pension
• Enhance the mobile app with new features and an improved customer
19.3 18.5 17.2 16.9 19.9
journey to become customers’ finance hub
2020 2021 2022 2023 2024
Lloyds Banking Group plc Annual Review 2024
13

--- PAGE 18 ---
Our external environment continued
Market context
Technology is evolving rapidly, driven by artificial intelligence, digital
transformation and the growing integration of automation across
industries. GenAI is being increasingly tested by all providers to
give customers more effective and personalised engagement.
Technology
To encourage greater data accessibility, the Government has
introduced legislation on Digital ID and Open Finance, enabling
platforms to act as gateways in offering integrated services.
and data
Impact
• Streamlined digital models are lowering unit operational costs
and intensifying market competition due to accelerated speed
in innovation and delivery to market
• Opportunity to reduce costs by reducing legacy technology
costs, and increasing revenue by improving customer journeys
• GenAI is increasing fraud volumes and sophistication of cyber
Link to strategy threats, requiring banks to enhance their security measures to
protect customers’ assets and data
Market context
Evolving regulations and environmental and societal issues mean
companies are expected to have a clear understanding of the
impact of these issues on the company, as well as play an increased
role in supporting the country and its people in responding.
Society and
Impact
• Organisations must have a clear understanding and integrate
sustainability into their strategies and decision making,
environment
understand their impacts, dependencies, risks and opportunities
• Organisations need to respond to the evolving regulatory
landscape, including developments in relation to UK
endorsement of the two International Sustainability Standard
Board’s sustainability reporting standards
Link to strategy
Market context
The regulatory landscape is evolving at pace, with particular
developments across Basel 3.1, Ring-Fencing, APP fraud and access
to cash. Notably, in the recent Mansion House speech the
Chancellor set out the Government’s vision to enhance the
Regulation
competitiveness of the UK’s financial services sector via a more
constructive regulatory backdrop.
Impact
• The Group is subject to changes in regulation, in particular the
near-final rules on Basel 3.1, as published in September by the
PRA, which take effect on 1 January 2027, and the Government’s
near-term changes to ring-fencing which were recently passed
into law, as well as changes to APP fraud and access to cash
• Following the upcoming Supreme Court outcome, further clarity
Link to strategy will be gained on motor finance regulation
• Further complexity in UK regulation could impact our ability to
achieve our purpose of Helping Britain Prosper and deliver on our
growth opportunity
Lloyds Banking Group plc Annual Review 2024
14

--- PAGE 19 ---
Our response IT applications c.50%
• Transitioning into a new simplified operational model to align and enhance on cloud
product delivery %
• Increasing our technology hires and expanding engineering teams to drive
digital transformation
• Modernising legacy systems by migrating to cloud infrastructure and retiring
outdated applications
• Business customers benefitting from faster lending decisions via auto-credit
decisioning in applying for overdrafts and aggregated exposure
• Deploying an AI code translation and writing tool to accelerate our Data
Migration programmes and our engineering capabilities
2025 outlook
• Continue to address technology debt and invest in future technologies 1 2 7 c.50
• Unlocking impact of Gen AI through centre of excellence with around
200 data scientists and engineers 20211 20221 20231 2024
• New savings and loans to be initiated on NextGen core banking engine
to increase speed to market and lower cost to serve
1 Change in measurement approach, so comparison to
current years is not like-for-like.
Our response Sustainable lending or investment target
• Sustainability is core to our purpose. Guided by our Group strategy, focusing Progress
on areas where we can have the largest sustainability impact
Commercial Banking
• Since 2022, supporting £47.3 billion of sustainable lending, with £17.5 billion
of sustainable lending supported in 2024. Discretionary investments of 2024 £10.7bn
£25.9 billion in climate-aware strategies £30 billion sustainable finance for Commercial Banking
• In July 2024 launched new £200 million of financing commitment to small customers from 1 January 2024 to end of 2026
local housing organisations, providing specialist housing to people who need Motor
it most
2024 £9.4bn
• Group decarbonisation emissions ambitions were validated by a third party
£8 billion financing for EV and plug-in hybrid
2025 outlook electric vehicles by 2024
• Launch £21 billion of new sustainable financing targets by 2027 for our EPC A EPC A and B mortgage lending
and B rated mortgage lending and financing for electric vehicles 2024 £11.4bn
• Increase our support to those who wish to purchase a share of a property
through shared ownership schemes £10 billion of mortgage lending for EPC A and B
rated properties by 2024
• Review our net zero bank ambition and sector level targets following the
release of the 7th carbon budget Scottish Widows
2024 £25.9bn
£20–£25 billion discretionary investment in
climate-aware strategies by 2025
For further details on our sustainable finance progress see
pages 46 to 60 of the annual report and accounts.
Our response Timeline of key regulatory changes
• Continue to evaluate the impact of Basel 3.1 as we progress with in the banking sector
implementation ahead of 1 January 2027, with the initial impact
expected to be moderately positive 2023 FCA Consumer Duty introduced
• Implemented the new requirements around APP fraud and continue
to focus on supporting customers who are impacted
• Maintain focus on delivering good outcomes for customers
• Meeting new CRD IV modelling requirements 2025 Expected FCA Enhanced Accountability Rules
2025 outlook
• Support the Government’s National Payments Vision, as outlined
in November 2024 2025 Ongoing consultation on ring-fencing rules
• Close monitoring of further changes in the UK regulatory landscape.
In particular, any policy initiatives following the proposals outlined
in the Chancellor’s Mansion House speech
• Ring-fencing changes will facilitate client solutions domestically 2027 Expected Basel 3.1 implementation
and internationally
Lloyds Banking Group plc Annual Review 2024
15

--- PAGE 20 ---
Our strategy
We successfully completed the first phase
of our ambitious and purpose-driven
strategy, transforming our capabilities as
we returned the business to growth and
exceeding our revenue target
What we have achieved over the last three years
Our three strategic priorities are enabling us to
achieve our purpose of Helping Britain Prosper
whilst delivering long-term sustainable returns
Grow Focus Change
• Returned core franchise to growth and • Strengthened cost and capital • Modernised our technology estate,
deepened relationships efficiency, demonstrating cost reducing tech debt to improve agility
• Delivered innovative new propositions discipline in an inflationary environment and accelerate the pace of change
that set us up for future revenue and maintaining a strong balance sheet • Improved the ways we use digital
momentum supported by originate to distribute technology and our data to drive better
• Improved access to quality and capabilities outcomes for our customers
affordable housing across the country, • Optimised balance sheet to offset • Our colleagues’ expertise and skills have
supported regional development, regulatory capital headwinds, helped been instrumental to our success. Our
enabled financial empowerment, and customers and clients become more people have been innovative, while we
helped navigate the UK’s transition to resilient whilst reducing our carbon reskill them for change, and delivered
a more sustainable future footprint and maintaining a disciplined distinctive customer experience
approach to cost and capital
management
Performance highlights Performance highlights Performance highlights
• c.£2 billion net revenue growth 2021 • £1.2 billion of gross cost savings • 17.5 per cent reduction in legacy
to 2024 • £7 billion pension deficit addressed technology applications
• £0.8 billion additional revenues from • c.£18 billion three year risk-weighted • c.50 per cent of applications on cloud
strategic initiatives assets optimisation • Over 10,000 customer-facing
• 12.3 per cent RoTE (14.0 per cent colleagues using GenAI support tool
excluding motor finance provision)
Our 2026 strategic commitments
Increased confidence in delivering our 2026 strategic commitments
>£1.5bn <50% >15% >200bps
additional revenues cost:income ratio RoTE capital generation
from strategic initiatives
Lloyds Banking Group plc Annual Review 2024
16

--- PAGE 21 ---
Grow
Growth is a core focus of our strategy.
Around two-thirds of our c.£3 billion strategic investment over
2022 to 2024 was aligned to growing and diversifying revenue.
There are four primary pillars for growth.
01 02 03 04
Deepen Create a new Digitise Develop our
and innovate Mass Affluent and diversify our Corporate and
in Consumer offering BCB business Institutional
business
We are deepening and We are creating a We are digitising We are developing
innovating across our new Mass Affluent and diversifying our our Corporate
Consumer business, offering to grow in BCB business, to grow and Institutional
bringing more of our this attractive and revenues and generate business to deliver
products and services underserved market value in products and disciplined growth,
to our customers, as segment across sectors where we are investing across
well as broadening our banking, protection underrepresented. our Cash-Debt-Risk
product offerings and and investments. management offering.
making it easier for
customers to access
them through our
intermediary partners.
Highlights Highlights Highlights Highlights
22.7m >3m >50% >30%
Digitally active customers Mass Affluent customers Share of Business Banking CIB other operating
(versus 18.3 million in 2021) (versus 2.1 million in 2021) and SME products originated income growth
and fulfilled digitally (versus 2021)
(versus 10 per cent in 2021)
Lloyds Banking Group plc Annual Review 2024
17

--- PAGE 22 ---
Our strategy continued
01
Deepen and innovate in Consumer
We are aiming to deepen and innovate in Consumer to bring more of our products
and services to our existing customers, as well as broaden our product offerings and
make it easier for customers to access them through our intermediary partners.
Progress in 2024 Priorities for 2025 to 2026
Relationships • Provided £9.4 billion of financing for • Expanding and scaling product offering
• Number of digitally active users grew to battery electric and plug-in hybrid vehicles to meet more customer needs
22.7 million, retaining our position as the since 2021 (e.g. Embedded Finance)
UK’s largest digital bank • Developed an Embedded Finance • Leveraging digital leadership to deliver
• 5 per cent growth since 2021 in depth of proposition for digital checkouts by innovative, personalised customer-led
relationship of customers, including growth launching an e-commerce lending product propositions
across all life stages1 ‘Black Horse FlexPay’ in partnership • Accelerating shift to mobile-first; adapting
• Launched re-imagined Lloyds mobile app, with NewDay physical footprint to maximise efficiency
with new navigation spaces such as Borrow Insurance, Pensions and Investments and engagement
and Insure, alongside personalised insights • Delivering improvements across all
• Scottish Widows now has more than
and conversation prompts channels, streamlining customer journeys
1 million digitally registered customers.
• New interactive tools such as Benefit
We recently launched a refreshed app for
Calculator, which empowers customers to workplace pension customers which has Select 2026 outcomes
identify support they might be eligible for
over 400,000 users, 60 per cent of which
• Over 11 million Your Credit Score customers are active users 3% c.50%
since launch, with over 780,000 customers
• Grew home insurance new policies market
benefitting from improved credit scores and
share from 12 per cent in 2021 to 15 per cent
access to new products and loans further increase active customers
in 2024
Lending • Achieved over £20 billion discretionary in Depth of served per
• Exceeded our sustainability target of investment in climate-aware strategies, Relationship distribution FTE
£10 billion new lending for EPC A and B one year early in 20242 (versus 2024)3 (versus 2021)
mortgages, delivering £11.4 billion by 2024
1 Customers retained from beginning of November 2021. Relates to product holdings, for franchise customers with active relationship.
2 This refers to funds that have a bias towards investing in companies that are adapting their business to be less carbon-intensive and/or developing climate solutions.
3 Customers retained since 2024. Relates to product holdings, for franchise customers with active relationship.
02
Create a new Mass Affluent offering
We are creating a new Mass Affluent offering to grow in this attractive and
underserved market segment across banking, protection and investments.
Progress in 2024 Priorities for 2025 to 2026
Overview New features and products • To drive Mass Affluent customer
• Growth in our Mass Affluent customer base • Interactive tools in app to support acquisition, launching a new PCA offering
to more than 3 million customers in managing their finances, in 2025 into the market
• Over 15 per cent growth in Mass Affluent including Goals functionality and • We will evolve the Mass Affluent
banking balances since 2021 as we Investment Needs Finder proposition, with enhanced digital
continued to build our integrated and • Launched two new Direct-to-Consumer experiences such as a digital financial
digitally-led banking, insurance and pension products: (i) Ready-Made Pensions planning space with personalised nudges
investments propositions and (ii) Whole of Market SIPP to make
• Evolved our dedicated Mass Affluent it easier for our customers to manage Select 2026 outcomes
proposition with new product offers, their pensions
digital tools and financial coaching to help • Continued to refine our lending policy to >10%
customers get the most from their money support the complex needs of the Mass
• Compared to 2023, the number of Affluent segment, supporting growth
customers opening a Ready-Made in mortgage completions for Mass increase in Mass Affluent total
Investment more than doubled, Affluent customers relationship balances, including
accompanied by a fourfold increase in assets under administration1
associated assets under administration
1 Banking balances and investment assets
under administration.
Lloyds Banking Group plc Annual Review 2024
18

--- PAGE 23 ---
Purpose in action
Sustainably growing
our consumer lending
Our lending, investments, products and
services are powerful drivers of a sustainable
and inclusive future, and are key to how
we grow our business profitably.
In 2024, we achieved our two
consumer sustainable financing targets
totalling more than £20 billion for
EPC A and B mortgage lending and
financing for electric vehicles and
plug-in hybrid vehicles.
>£20bn
of lending against these
targets since 2022
Read more about green finance
Purpose in action
Providing finance
to local businesses
Community Development Finance
Institutions (CDFIs) provide finance
to local businesses, often in the
most disadvantaged communities.
We provided £43 million of funding to
three CDFIs as part of a £62 million fund.
This ground-breaking commitment is the
first commercial loan made to the sector
by a mainstream UK lender.
10,500
jobs to be supported
Read more about CDFIs
Lloyds Banking Group plc Annual Review 2024
19

--- PAGE 24 ---
Our strategy continued
03
Digitise and diversify our BCB business
We are digitising and diversifying our BCB business to grow revenues and generate
value in products and sectors where we are underrepresented.
Progress in 2024 Priorities for 2025 to 2026 Select 2026 outcomes
Digitise and transform • Capturing targeted BCB sector and Maintain 50%
• We continue to make strides in our segment opportunities, deepening
multi-year journey to build a digitally-led customer relationships
relationship bank, launching mobile-first • Increasing BCB shift to digital-first, small business of key servicing
journeys and onboarding clients up to 15 delivering experience improvements and deposit market share1 interactions
times faster since roll-out in the first half journey efficiencies digitised
of 2023 • Connecting clients to wider Group solutions
• Increased digital sales, with the number of (e.g. pensions and insurance)
1 UK Finance – businesses with less than £25 million
products originated and fulfilled digitally turnover.
growing from 10 per cent in 2021 to over
50 per cent in 2024
• Faster lending decisions through auto-credit
decisioning for eligible Business Banking
customers applying for up to £50,000
overdrafts and up to £100,000 aggregated
exposure
Diversify
• Enhanced Merchant Services propositions
including Clover (flexible point of sale
business management system) for
face-to-face transactions
• Launched new card proposition for small
businesses. Features include longer interest
free periods, higher limits and cashback
04
Develop our Corporate
and Institutional business
We are developing our Corporate and Institutional business to deliver disciplined growth.
Progress in 2024 Priorities for 2025 to 2026
Cash-Debt-Risk management Sustainable financing • Becoming a broader CIB solution provider
• Grown other operating income by over • Delivered £10.7 billion of Commercial to meet more Transaction Banking and
30 per cent since 2021 (outperforming our Banking sustainable financing1 in 2024, Markets needs via Cash-Debt-Risk offering
20 per cent target), expanding Institutional supporting the Group’s sustainable lending • Disciplined expansion domestically and
Coverage and investing in Markets and portfolio and clients’ net zero journeys across US and European footprint
Transaction Banking • We continue to support the UK’s transition • Connecting CIB clients to solutions
• Delivered capital-lite growth by increasing to net zero with investment in regional provided by the wider Group, for example
net risk weighted assets by just 1 per cent development, providing financing to Workplace Pensions
since full-year 2021 infrastructure projects across the UK
• Increased our market flows by growing our including wind farms, solar panels, and Select 2026 outcomes
all issuer sterling debt capital markets investments in new technologies
market share from 6 per cent to 10 per cent c.45% >5.25%
since full-year 2021
• Broadened rates participation by improving
sterling interest-rate swap ranking from 7th increase in income / average
in 2021 to 2nd in 2024 CIB other risk-weighted
operating income assets
(versus 2021)
1 In line with the Group’s Sustainable Financing Framework.
Lloyds Banking Group plc Annual Review 2024
20

--- PAGE 25 ---
Purpose in action
Supporting
social housing
In partnership with the National Wealth Fund we
announced a £500 million funding arrangement to
support the retrofit of social housing in the UK. This
deal brings public and private expertise together to
deploy private capital to deliver warmer, greener
homes for social tenants – benefitting their health,
work and home lives.
Our support to this sector is unlocking profitable,
sustainable and inclusive growth opportunities for
the Group with improving returns year on year.
>£2bn
of lending supported to the
social housing sector in 2024
Read more about social housing
Purpose in action
Building new
homes through our
MADE partnership
£150 million joint venture with Homes England
and Barratt to oversee multiple large-scale
projects supporting the government’s plan
to build 1.5 million new homes over the next
5 years. Through this partnership the Group will
participate in a number of large scale residential
and community regeneration projects,
generating attractive sustainable returns.
£150m
joint venture with Homes
England and Barratt
Read more on how we’re
supporting the UK housing market
Lloyds Banking Group plc Annual Review 2024
21

--- PAGE 26 ---
Our strategy continued
Focus
We are investing to grow and diversify our revenue,
alongside maintaining our disciplined approach
to cost and capital management.
Strengthen cost and
capital efficiency
We have maintained our strong balance sheet with a disciplined
approach to cost and capital management.
Progress in 2024 Priorities for 2025 to 2026 Select 2026 outcomes
• Achieved £1.2 billion in gross cost savings • Accelerate shift towards capital-lite growth >60% >200bps
since 2021 areas, increasing other operating income
• In order to unlock efficiencies, we have contribution to additional revenues from
rationalised our branch footprint, whilst strategic initiatives reduction in capital generation
continuing to invest in digital journeys. • Ongoing commitment to driving further data centres
As a result, the number of active customers cost efficiencies, supported by digitisation (versus 2021)
served per distribution FTE has increased and rationalisation of the property estate
by over 30 per cent since 2021 • Continued focus on risk-weighted assets
• Achieved our target of over 30 per cent optimisation through securitisation activity
reduction in office footprint by 2024, as we
continue to adapt to new ways of working
• Optimised our balance sheet through
increased use of securitisations and
originate to distribute capabilities. Capital
efficient securitisation activity contributed
towards the £7.1 billion of gross risk-
weighted assets optimisation in 2024
• Strong capital generation of 148 basis
points, 177 basis points excluding motor
finance provision
Lloyds Banking Group plc Annual Review 2024
22

--- PAGE 27 ---
Purpose in action
Grounded in evidence
As one of the largest lenders to the agriculture sector,
we’re supporting farmers in diversifying their portfolios
and transforming environmental performance.
We’ve teamed up with Soil Association Exchange to
create the largest, most comprehensive review of
farm environmental performance ever carried out in
the UK with around 850 farmers benefitting to date.
This insight allows the Group to focus on
developing the key strategic levers to support the
decarbonisation and optimisation of one of our
hardest to abate sectors.
>4,000
bespoke recommendations
to farmers across the UK since 2021
Read the full report
Purpose in action
Supporting our
customers to save
In 2024, we launched MBNA Savings to our
customers, extending our products and
giving our customers more options suitable
for their savings needs.
Our expanded offerings have enabled us to
open an additional 20,000 savings accounts,
bringing the total to 3.9 million savings
accounts opened across all brands in 2024.
Additionally, our ISA products have helped
customers save an extra £8 billion tax-free.
3.9m
savings accounts
opened in 2024
Read more about
our brand MBNA
Lloyds Banking Group plc Annual Review 2024
23

--- PAGE 28 ---
Our strategy continued
Change
Delivering our strategy requires the Group to accelerate
the intensity with which we use digital technologies and data
to support customers. Our colleagues’ expertise and skills
are instrumental to our success.
Maximise the potential of people,
technology and data
We are investing in our people, digital technologies and data
to enable us to deliver our strategy, thereby delivering for our customers.
People
Progress in 2024 Priorities for 2025 to 2026 Select 2026 outcomes
• Recruited over 4,000 new colleagues in • Enhance commitments to building a more Maintain
technology and data roles to drive growth inclusive organisation and increase number
and efficiency since 2021 of hires in key skills areas (e.g. engineering)
• Built a more inclusive workforce led by senior • Provide colleagues with GenAI support tools strong employee engagement
leadership hires, with improvement across • Continue to modernise and enhance our index (versus 2024)
our Diversity, Equity and Inclusion metrics office estate to enhance productivity
• Modernised property estate to support of our colleagues
improved ways of working, with over a
quarter of colleagues in transformed
workspaces
Technology & data
Progress in 2024 Priorities for 2025 to 2026 Select 2026 outcomes
• Continued to digitise customer journeys, • Leverage new technologies (e.g. GenAI) and >30% 35%
and invested in refreshed app data to drive innovative solutions for both
• Modernised technology estate, reducing customers and colleagues
legacy tech applications by 17.5 per cent • 2025/26 GenAI use cases including applications gross reduction
since 2021 through decommissioning and improved fraud detection, AI-driven money on modern in run and change
automation management for Mass Affluent customers, technology technology costs
• Reduced legacy data centres and and scaled knowledge support tool (versus 2021)
accelerated cloud adoption, with • Accelerate legacy app decommissioning and
c.50 per cent of applications on Cloud cloud migration activity
• Provided data driven product solutions such
as Lloyds Bank Market Intelligence
Lloyds Banking Group plc Annual Review 2024
24

--- PAGE 29 ---
Purpose in action
Supporting
our colleagues
Our aim is to create a diverse and inclusive
workforce and unlock potential, making
us a more competitive Group as a result.
In 2024, we proudly continued our Line
Manager Race Education, building on
the momentum with c.10,000 colleagues
and senior leaders trained. This training
provides our colleagues with a deeper
understanding of how cultural differences
can play out in the workplace.
c.10,000
line managers
and senior leaders
participated
in sessions
Watch a colleague share their
since launch experience at the Group in this video
Purpose in action
Supporting disabled
entrepreneurs
We are committed to providing an inclusive workplace for
colleagues with disabilities, long-term health and neurodivergent
conditions and providing accessible and inclusive products and
services to better support our customers.
In 2024, we became a signatory of the Disability Finance Code
for Entrepreneurship which aims to drive engagement between
the disabled entrepreneur community and the financial services
sector in the UK. We were also proud to host the launch of the
Lilac Review – an independent, government-backed initiative
designed to identify and overcome the barriers faced by
disabled business owners.
Disabled entrepreneurs are a critical yet often overlooked
segment of society. By embracing this wealth of talent,
innovation and resilience, there is a significant opportunity
to further the Group’s commercial objectives and
economic potential.
£230bn
could be added to the
UK economy by improving
opportunities for
disabled entrepreneurs Read more on how
we’re supporting UK
(Lilac Review)
entrepreneurs
Lloyds Banking Group plc Annual Review 2024
25

--- PAGE 30 ---
Our key performance indicators
The business has delivered significant strategic
progress and a robust financial performance
Financial
Our key performance indicators
provide clear evidence of our
performance in relation to the Statutory profit
after tax
Group’s most important priorities. £m
These encompass a range of measures designed to assess both
financial and non-financial performance, ensuring a balanced
4,477
consideration of the interests of all stakeholders, including 1,387 5,885 3,923 5,518 4,477
customers, shareholders and colleagues. A detailed outline
of these can be found on the following pages 110 to 133 of the 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024
annual report and accounts.
Statutory profit after tax is lower than 2023 due to lower net income,
These key performance indicators also inform remuneration at higher operating costs and higher charges for remediation and impairment.
all levels across the Group to ensure that our colleagues act in Excluding the charge for motor finance commission arrangements,
the best interests of both customers and shareholders. This statutory profit was £5,035 million.
alignment considers the Group’s financial performance as well Link to strategy
as specific conduct and risk management controls.
Net income
£m
17,117
14,404 15,763 17,465 17,932 17,117
2020 2021 2022 2023 2024
Net income is lower than 2023, with lower underlying net interest income
and increased operating lease depreciation, partly offset by higher
underlying other income. The banking net interest margin was resilient,
increasing since the first half of 2024. 2025 guidance2: Underlying net
interest income of c.£13.5 billion.
Link to strategy
Key performance indicators that are directly linked to our
remuneration balanced scorecard are marked with this
symbol. See page 119 of the annual report and accounts.
We use a number of alternative performance measures in
Return on tangible
the description of our business performance and financial
equity
position. These measures are labelled with this symbol.
%
See page 314 of the annual report and accounts.
12.3 2.3
1 From 2021, to aid comparability with peers, we began reporting return on 13.8 9.8 15.8 12.3
tangible equity without adding back post-tax amortisation of intangible assets.
Pre-2021 comparatives have been restated. 2020 20211 2022 2023 2024
2 Expectation based on the Group’s current macroeconomic assumptions.
3 Reported on a pro forma basis, reflecting declared share buybacks and the Return on tangible equity of 12.3 per cent reflects the Group’s robust
dividends received from the Insurance business in the subsequent quarter, but
financial performance. Excluding the charge for motor finance commission
excluding phased unwind of IFRS 9 relief.
arrangements, return on tangible equity was 14.0 per cent. 2025 guidance2:
Return on tangible equity of c.13.5 per cent.
Link to strategy Link to strategy
Grow Focus Change
Lloyds Banking Group plc Annual Review 2024
26

--- PAGE 31 ---
Operating costs Underlying profit
£m £m
9,442 6,343
8,202 8,312 8,672 9,140 9,442 1,742 7,536 7,028 7,809 6,343
2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024
Operating costs are 3 per cent higher than 2023 with cost efficiencies Underlying profit is lower than 2023 due to lower net income, higher
helping to partially offset inflationary pressures, business growth costs and operating costs and higher remediation and underlying impairment
ongoing strategic investment. 2025 guidance2: Operating costs of charges. Excluding the charge for motor finance commission arrangements,
c.£9.7 billion underlying profit was £7,043 million.
Link to strategy Link to strategy
Common equity Ordinary dividend
tier 1 ratio (CET1) p per share
%
13.5 3.17 0.57
16.2 16.3 14.1 13.7 13.5 2.00 2.40 2.76 3.17
2020 20213 20223 20233 20243 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024
Pro forma CET1 ratio remains strong at 13.5 per cent, after increased Total ordinary dividend of 3.17 pence per share, up 15 per cent, reflecting
ordinary dividend and announced share buyback. Expect to pay down to a our progressive and sustainable ordinary dividend policy. Includes both
CET1 ratio of c.13 per cent by 2026. interim and final dividends. The Group has also announced a share
buyback of up to £1.7 billion.
Link to strategy Link to strategy
Total shareholder
return
%
35 0 10.9 21.2
21.2
(42)
2020 2021 2022 2023 2024
Total in-year shareholder return was 21.2 per cent. The share price was
14.8 per cent higher with capital return of 6.4 per cent.
Link to strategy
Lloyds Banking Group plc Annual Review 2024
27

--- PAGE 32 ---
Our key performance indicators continued
Non-financial
Customer
Digitally active users Customer
m satisfaction
All-channel net
promoter score
22.7 67.0
17.4 18.3 19.8 21.5 22.7 68.5 68.8 67.4 68.2 67.0
2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 20201 20211 20221 2023 2024
Reflecting the pace of digital adoption, the number of active digital users Our all-channel net promoter score measures the customer perception
increased in the year to 22.7 million, up 5.7 per cent year on year. Within of day-to-day service across our channels, seeing broadly stable
this we had 20.2 million app users, which is an 8.3 per cent increase from performance against the backdrop of considerable changes to how we
last year. serve customers in all channels.
Link to strategy Link to strategy
Customer Group customer
complaints dashboard (GCD)
FCA reportable (November YTD)
complaints per Pts – 2024
1,000 accounts % – 2021 to 2023
Index – 2020
2.74 2.58 2.60 2.57 3.33 74 79 80 86 83
3.33 83
H1 20222 H2 20222 H1 2023 H2 2023 H1 2024 2020 20213 2022 2023 20243
We always want to provide our customers with the best possible service In 2024, the total GCD score is 83, 8 points above target of 75. Across all
and our colleagues work tirelessly to understand the concerns of those measures, 58 per cent of scores have improved compared to 2023.
who contact us. During the first half of 2024, we saw an increase due to Continued focus is required to maintain strong customer performance in
commission complaints in Motor. Data for the second half of 2024 is not the context of our strategic priorities.
available at time of publishing.
Link to strategy Link to strategy
Climate
Operational carbon Our overall market-based carbon emissions were 123,960 tonnes COe,
2
emissions a 30 per cent decrease since baseline year 2018/19 when market-based
tCO 2 e carbon emissions were 176,993 tonnes CO 2 e. There is a 1.1 per cent
increase since 2022/23, mainly driven by an increase in our emissions from
business travel. Read more on page 59 of the annual report and accounts.
123,960 Link to strategy
115,978 112,067 117,671 122,564 123,960
19/204 20/214 21/224 22/234 23/24
Lloyds Banking Group plc Annual Review 2024
28

--- PAGE 33 ---
Colleague
Employee Engagement has increased since 2023. The improvement this year is due
engagement index to an increased sense of pride among colleagues working for the Group
% favourable and a perception of the Group having a supportive work environment.
Link to strategy
71
81 72 78 66 71
20203 20213 2022 2023 2024
Women in senior roles by 2025 Progress 2025 ambition Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic Progress 2025 ambition
(%) representation in senior roles by 2025
(%) 13.0
2021 Baseline 40.4 50.0 2021 Baseline 12.6
Link to strategy Link to strategy
Black Heritage representation Progress 2025 ambition Disability representation Progress 2025 ambition
in senior roles by 2025 in senior roles by 2025
(%) (%) 12.4
2021 Baseline 1.8 3.0 2021 Baseline 16.1
Link to strategy
While proud of our progress, we recognise there’s more to do. We remain committed to meeting the FTSE Women Leaders report goals, where
we’re ranked 5th in the FTSE 100. We are also pleased to have surpassed our 12 percent goal for senior roles filled by colleagues with disabilities.
From 2025, we are taking a new approach to our representation ambitions, which we aim to achieve by the end of 2030. We are setting an ambition
to reach and maintain a gender balance of 45 per cent to 55 per cent in executive roles. Additionally, we are moving to goals ranging between
3.5 per cent and 4 per cent for Black heritage colleagues, and between 19 per cent and 22 per cent for Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic colleagues
in executive roles. Read more on pages 30 to 32 of the annual report and accounts.
Key performance indicators that are directly linked to our Link to strategy
remuneration balanced scorecard are marked with this Grow Focus Change
symbol. See page 119 of the annual report and accounts.
We use a number of alternative performance measures in 1 Re-stated to reflect structural changes to our measurement programme.
the description of our business performance and financial 2 Excludes PPI, claims management companies and legacy TSB accounts.
position. These measures are labelled with this symbol. 3 Change in measurement approach, so comparison to current years is not like-for-like.
4 Restated data since 2019/20 to improve the accuracy of reporting, using actual data
See page 314 of the annual report and accounts. to replace estimates and updates to historical emissions.
Lloyds Banking Group plc Annual Review 2024
29

--- PAGE 34 ---
Our colleagues
Engaged colleagues are critical
to the success of the Group and
our transformation
Read more from
our colleagues
We are committed to building an Engagement increased by 5 percentage points from prior year to
71 per cent and our advocacy measure (employee net promoter
inclusive organisation that is
score) increased by 4 points to 8. Both are robust outcomes
representative of our customers and considering the backdrop of high volumes and pace of change. Our
line managers continue to be integral in building and maintaining a
modern-day Britain. We will enhance our positive culture, with trust in leadership showing strong growth.
success if differences are embraced and During the year the Group communicated directly with colleagues
detailing Group performance, changes in the economic and financial
everyone reaches their potential.
environment, and updates on key strategic initiatives. Meetings
were held throughout the year between the Group and our
recognised unions. Please see page 86 of the annual report and
71% +4pts accounts for further examples of how the Board engages with the
Group’s workforce and why the Board considers those arrangements
to be effective.
Engagement increased our advocacy measure For 2024, the Remuneration Committee approved Group
by 5pts from prior year (employee net promoter Performance Share awards for colleagues, and colleagues are eligible
to 71 per cent score) increased by to participate in HMRC-approved share plans which promote share
4 points to 8 ownership by giving employees an opportunity to invest in Group
shares. The vast majority of our colleagues hold shares in the Group.
Our approach to flexible working
Our colleague engagement
Through Flexibility Works we offer colleagues a range of flexible
In 2024, we broadened how we listen to our colleagues to provide
working options. We’re focused on balancing the needs of our
a more regular and complete picture of sentiment.
customers as we transform our business by creating a workplace
We want people to love working here. With more than 66,000
people love and where they feel supported in the moments that
colleagues working across the Group, we welcome their views and
matter.
opinions on a range of topics to help us grow together. We evolved
All colleagues have access to a range of flexible working options,
our pulse and annual surveys by providing greater alignment to our
depending on their role. These include flexibility for everyone,
strategy and purpose, with further changes to the survey made to
flexibility for health and carers, flexibility for families and flexibility for
improve the colleague experience.
growth. For further information refer to our Colleague Handbook .
Our annual survey was completed by 81 per cent of colleagues in the
Group, which gave us a near-complete view on sentiment on our
transformation journey, including over 190,000 comments.
Lloyds Banking Group plc Annual Review 2024
30

--- PAGE 35 ---
We are setting a new ambition to reach and maintain a gender
Our approach to flexible working
balance of between 45 to 55 per cent in executive1 roles by the end
of 2030. Alongside this, we will continue to focus on meeting the
Flexibility for everyone
goals outlined in the FTSE Women Leaders report.
79%
Our disclosures in relation to board diversity as required under the
UK Listing Rule UKLR6.6.6(9) are on page 136 of the annual report
and accounts.
of colleagues used at least one element
Ethnicity
of our Flexibility Works offering in 2024
We are committed to building an inclusive society and creating an
organisation that reflects the community we serve.
Flexibility for health and carers
Increasing representation of colleagues from Black, Asian and
7,500
Minority Ethnic backgrounds remains challenging, but we are
focused on accelerating progress. At the end of 2024, 12.6 per cent
of senior manager positions were held by Black, Asian or Minority
carers have access to additional flexibility Ethnic colleagues, and 1.8 per cent held by Black heritage colleagues.
We continue to be guided by the principles of our 2020 Race Action
Flexibility for families Plan, which focuses on driving cultural change, improving
recruitment and progression within the Group, and actively
3,821
supporting Black heritage communities across the UK.
As we move into the next chapter, our new ambitions for 2030
reflect the fluid nature of both our transformation and our evolving
colleagues used family leave to spend time society. Grounded in census and industry benchmarking, we are
with their growing families moving to ranging goals between 3.5 per cent and 4 per cent for
Black heritage and 19 per cent and 22 per cent for Black, Asian and
Minority Ethnic representation in executive2 roles.
Flexibility for growth
26,000 Disability and neurodiversity
In April 2023, we set a public goal to double the representation of
senior management colleagues3 with disabilities to 12 per cent by
2025. Alongside this goal we committed to improve the working
hours of leave used to support public duties
environment and experience for our colleagues with disabilities,
including making our recruitment processes more accessible
and inclusive; supporting career development; improving the
Our 2024 diversity, equity
accessibility of our workspaces and technology; upskilling colleagues
and inclusion performance
to reduce stigma; and taking work beyond our own organisation to
A more diverse and inclusive business is a stronger business. In line champion the disability community.
with our Group strategy and our activity to maximise the potential
You can read more on the progress we have made as part of our
of people, our goal is to ensure diversity, equity and inclusion is at the
Blueprint for Disability and Neuro-inclusion Blueprint for disability
heart of everything we do, further integrating initiatives across our
and neuro-inclusion . In addition in 2024, we launched a publicly
operations, ensuring it influences every aspect of our work with our
available disability and neurodiversity training which any
customers, colleagues, communities and partners.
individual, business owner, or organisation can access.
Our refreshed approach and plans remain centred around our
As of the end of 2024, 16.1 per cent of our senior management
guiding principle of Inclusive Every Day, our internal campaign
colleagues shared with us that they had a disability, meaning we’ve
launched in 2023. This is supported by our inclusion plans which
exceeded our original target earlier than anticipated. Since launching
we have developed in partnership with our Group Executive Allies,
our goal, we’ve seen a significant uplift in the number of colleagues
diverse colleague panels, and our employee networks.
sharing their disability data, rising from 24.7 per cent in March 2023 to
Recognising the importance of social mobility, we are dialling 60.5 per cent at the end of 2024. Our aspiration is for 80 per cent of
up our focus on this important topic, ensuring we provide equitable UK colleagues to have shared their data with us by the end of 2025.
opportunities for all.
Sexual orientation and gender identity
The Board and senior management have a vital role to play in shaping,
We continue to focus on building an inclusive and open working
role modelling and embedding a healthy corporate culture, and this
environment for our LGBTQ+ colleagues. Our LGBTQ+ colleague
continues to be a priority in 2025.
network, Rainbow, continues to play a pivotal role in our approach
Gender to supporting our colleagues. In 2024, we introduced comprehensive
guidance to support colleagues who transition or change their
We are committed to leading the way in gender equality. Our focus
gender at work. This guidance was developed in collaboration
is on enhancing the talent pipeline to achieve a gender balance,
with colleagues from our Rainbow network, internal experts, legal
championing gender equality for all, and promoting allyship and
advisors and external specialists. It aims to assist both colleagues
inclusive leadership.
and their line managers, enhancing support for individuals on their
Our commitment to gender balance is reflected in the steady
journey and improving line managers’ understanding of the
progress we have made with 40.4 per cent of senior3 roles held by
complexities involved in transitioning or changing gender identity.
women at the end of 2024. This is against an ambition we set
We have piloted an enhanced Employee Assistance Programme
ourselves in 2020 to achieve 50 per cent representation of women
(EAP) specifically for our LGBTQ+ colleagues and allies. This initiative
in senior roles by 2025.
was launched in response to feedback indicating that the existing
Our dedication to gender diversity remains steadfast and in 2024
EAP could better address the unique challenges faced by our
we refreshed our overall approach, moving to new ambitions that
LGBTQ+ colleagues.
better align to our strategic goals and accelerate meaningful
diversity in our leadership team from 2025. 1 Executive roles include Grade X colleagues only, subject to local laws and regulations.
2 Executive roles include UK based Grade X colleagues only.
3 Senior managers: Grades F, G and Executive.
Lloyds Banking Group plc Annual Review 2024
31

--- PAGE 36 ---
Our colleagues continued
2024 progress and performance on diversity, equity and inclusion metrics
Number % %
2024 2024 2023
Gender1 Board members Men 5 50.0 54.5
Women 5 50.0 45.5
Senior positions on the Board2 Men 3 75.0 75.0
Women 1 25.0 25.0
GEC Men 7 53.8 53.3
Women 6 46.2 46.7
GEC and GEC direct reports Men 71 54.6 53.8
Women 59 45.4 46.2
Senior managers Men 4,691 59.6 59.9
Women 3,184 40.4 40.1
All colleagues Men 30,090 45.2 43.7
Women 36,397 54.8 56.3
Ethnicity1 Board members White British or other White 8 80.0 81.8
Asian heritage 1 10.0 9.1
Mixed/multiple ethnic groups 1 10.0 9.1
Senior positions on the Board2 White British or other White 4 100.0 100.0
GEC White British or other White 11 84.6 86.7
Asian heritage 2 15.4 13.3
Colleague Senior managers of Black, Asian 950 12.6 11.3
and Minority Ethnic heritage
Senior managers of Black 138 1.8 1.7
heritage
All colleagues of Black, Asian and 10,735 16.9 15.3
Minority Ethnic heritage
Disability Colleagues who disclose that they have a disability 11,895 18.7 12.2
Senior managers who disclose that they have a disability 1,281 16.1 12.4
Sexual orientation Colleagues who disclose their sexual orientation 49,682 77.8 72.9
and gender identity Colleagues who disclose that they are LGBTQ+ 2,569 4.0 3.6
Colleagues who disclose their gender identity 44,644 69.9 60.7
1 Data is collated and reported in compliance with the provisions of section 414C(8)(c) • LGBTQ+ includes Asexual / Ace Spectrum, Bisexual / Bi, Gay Man, Lesbian / Gay Woman,
Companies Act 2006. For Listing rule UKLR 6.6.6R (9) and (10) please see further Pansexual, Other Sexual Orientation and includes Trans*
information on our Board diversity and executive management on page 136 of the • The Group Executive Committee (GEC) assists the Group Chief Executive in strategic,
annual report and accounts. cross-business or Group-wide matters and inputs to the Board. GEC includes the Group
2 Senior positions on the Board refer to the roles of the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Executive and excludes colleagues who report to a member or attendee of
Chief Financial Officer, Senior Independent Director and Chair of the Board. the GEC, including administrative or executive support roles (personal assistant,
Indicator is subject to Limited ISAE 3000 (revised) assurance by Deloitte LLP for executive assistant)
the 2024 Sustainability Reporting. Deloitte’s 2024 assurance statement and the • GEC and GEC direct reports includes the Group Chief Executive, the Group Chief
sustainability metrics basis of reporting 2024 are available online at sustainability Financial Officer and colleagues who report to them or to any other member or
download. attendee of the GEC, excluding administrative or executive support roles (personal
assistant, executive assistant)
• Senior managers: Grades F, G and Executive (Executive being grades above G)
Methodology and definitions:
• A colleague is an individual who is paid via the Group’s payroll and employed on a
• Data is sourced from the HR system (Workday) containing all permanent
permanent or fixed-term contract (employed for a limited period). Includes parental
colleague details
leavers and internationals (UK includes Guernsey, Isle of Man, Jersey and Gibraltar).
• All data as at 31 December 2024
Excludes leavers, Group non-executive directors, contractors, temps and agency staff
• All diversity information for ethnicity, disability, sexual orientation and gender identity is
• Diversity calculations are based on headcount, not full-time employee value
based on voluntary self-declaration by colleagues. Our systems do not record diversity
• Ethnicity data excludes non-UK colleagues
data of colleagues who have not declared this information and is for UK payroll only
• Gender data includes international, those on parental/maternity leave, absent without
leave and long-term sick and excludes contractors, temporary and agency staff
Lloyds Banking Group plc Annual Review 2024
32

--- PAGE 37 ---
Risk overview
Evolving our risk
and control capabilities
The Group’s approach to risk Risk profile and performance in 2024
Risk management is integral to our business model and strategy, The Group is committed to maintaining support for its customers
taking advantage of appropriate opportunities and ensuring during continued economic uncertainties in both global and
sustainable growth for the Group. A strong risk management culture domestic markets.
is crucial to keep the Group, our colleagues and our customers safe
The Group’s credit performance improved in the year. The Group’s
and secure from existing and emerging risks.
loan portfolio continues to be well positioned and is closely
The enterprise risk management framework (ERMF) is the monitored to identify signs of stress.
foundation for the delivery of effective and consistent risk control
Potential impacts to customers, shareholders and the Group’s risk
across the whole Group, and is regularly updated to ensure it
and control profile following the Court of Appeal decision on motor
remains in line with regulatory expectations, corporate governance
finance commissions continue to be closely monitored and assessed.
and industry good practice. The ERMF enables proactive
identification, active management and monitoring of the Group’s As part of the Group’s strategy, there will be continued investment
risks, and enables a consistent approach across the Group’s entities in technology and infrastructure. The Group’s operational risks
and sub-groups. continue to be a key area of focus, particularly relating to
information, cyber and physical security risk and supply chain
Enhancements to the ERMF have been introduced during 2024 to
management.
further define the Group’s proportionate and materiality-based
approach to risk management. The management of financial crime risks and consumer fraud
remains a key priority for the Group. The economic crime prevention
During 2024, the Group reviewed its three lines of defence model to
strategy has been reviewed, with funding allocated to deliver
provide greater clarity to roles and responsibilities and further
improved systems and controls.
strengthen the Group’s risk management capabilities.
Model risk and the use of artificial intelligence are also areas of
Activity to deliver further improvements to the ERMF and its
significant internal and external focus.
supporting risk management methodologies will continue into 2025.
The Risk overview provides a summary of the Group’s principal risk
Further information on the changes can be found on page 138 of the
performance and current emerging and topical risks.
annual report and accounts.
Enterprise risk management framework
Role of the Board • The Board and senior management are responsible for the approval of the ERMF,
01
and senior together with Group-wide principles and policies
• The Board delegates executive authorities to ensure there is effective oversight
management
of risk management
• More information on the Board’s responsibilities can be found on page 91 of the annual report
and accounts
Risk culture and • The Group’s Code of Ethics and Responsibility helps foster the appropriate culture, which ensures
02
the customer performance, risk and reward are aligned and good customer outcomes are consistently delivered
Risk appetite • Risk appetite is approved by the Board annually and is defined as the type and aggregate level of
03
risk that the Group is willing to take or accept in pursuit of its strategic aims and business plans
• Board-level risk appetite metrics are augmented further by lower-level measures to facilitate the
management of Board risk appetite
Risk and control • The Group adopts a continuous risk management approach from identifying the risks through risk
04
self-assessment and control self-assessment, and managing the risks through to producing appropriate, accurate
and focused risk reporting
• Further details regarding the Group’s risk and control cycle can be found on page 141 of the annual
report and accounts, with a summary of the changes to principal risk categories on page 138 of
the annual report and accounts
Risk governance • The governance framework supports a consistent approach to enterprise-wide behaviour and
05
decision making
• Senior executives are supported by a committee-based structure, which is designed to ensure
open challenge and enable effective Board engagement and decision making
Three lines • The three lines of defence model defines the responsibilities and accountabilities for risk
06
of defence management, with effective independent oversight and assurance
• Enhancements have been made to the model during 2024. The Risk management section on
page 137 of the annual report and accounts provides further information
Lloyds Banking Group plc Annual Review 2024
33

--- PAGE 38 ---
Risk overview continued
Principal risks
Key
The principal risks outlined in this section are used
to monitor and report the risk exposures posing Risk trends
the greatest potential impact to the Group. Stable Improving Elevated
All principal risks are Board-approved enterprise-wide risk
Link to strategy
categories which are reported to the Board Risk Committee
and the Board regularly. Grow Focus Change
The Group has undertaken a detailed review of its risk categories
during 2024 and implemented an events-based risk management Changes to risk categories since 2023
framework. This has resulted in a reclassification and reduction New principal risk Unchanged risk Reclassified risk
in the number of principal risk types, and the simplification of level
two risk categories. Further information on these changes can be
found on page 138 of the annual report and accounts.
The risk management section on pages 137 to 198 of the annual
report and accounts provides a detailed review of these risks,
including definitions and how they are identified, managed,
mitigated and monitored.
The Board Risk Committee report on pages 104 to 108 of the
annual report and accounts outlines its purpose, structure and
responsibilities in addition to activities during the year.
Capital risk
Risk performance and key developments in 2024 Key mitigating actions Risk trends
The Group continued to maintain its strong capital • Capital management framework is in place, which Stable
position in 2024 with a CET1 capital ratio of includes the setting of capital risk appetite, capital
13.5 per cent on a pro forma basis (2023: 13.7 per cent planning and stress testing activities Link to strategy
pro forma). This remains ahead of minimum capital • Regular refresh and monitoring of a suite of early See pages 22 to 23
requirements and in excess of the Group’s ongoing warning indicators and maintenance of a Capital of the annual report
and accounts
target of c.13.0 per cent, which includes a management Contingency Framework, designed to identify and
buffer of around 1 per cent. Banking business profits for act on emerging capital concerns at an early stage
the year and the receipt of dividends from the Insurance • Derisking the business through prudent underwriting
business, partially offset by risk-weighted asset (RWA) standards and continual portfolio management, and Changes since 2023
increases and other movements, has enabled strong enhancing capital efficiency through optimisation Unchanged risk
shareholder distributions. initiatives including net present value positive
securitisation activity
Downside risks arising from economic and regulatory
challenges, including in relation to Retail secured CRD IV
RWA increases, along with the potential impact of the
Court of Appeal decision on motor finance commission
arrangements are being closely monitored.
Climate risk
Risk performance and key developments in 2024 Key mitigating actions Risk trends
The Group is continuing to develop and embed its • Progress against our net zero ambitions and targets Stable
capabilities for measuring and managing key climate monitored through the Group Net Zero Committee
risks within its risk management approach, including • Enhanced transition risk assessments across Link to strategy
cross-cutting impacts on other principal risks. commercial lending, expanding into key net zero See pages 17 to 25
sectors, such as commercial and residential real of the annual report
The Group has monitored its progress against net zero and accounts
estate and agriculture
ambitions, however the external landscape presents
• Incorporating quantification of climate impact
increasing challenges, both in relation to the policy
into the calculation of expected credit losses
changes required to support the transition to net zero,
• Horizon scanning and tracking regulatory Changes since 2023
as well as increasing regulatory expectations.
compliance requirements Unchanged risk
Lloyds Banking Group plc Annual Review 2024
34

--- PAGE 39 ---
Compliance risk
Risk performance and key developments in 2024 Key mitigating actions Risk trends
The compliance risk profile has remained stable in 2024, • Policies and procedures setting out clear Stable
however it continues to be closely monitored given the requirements and key controls that apply across
pace of regulatory and legislative change and an the business, which are aligned to the Group’s Link to strategy
increasing volume of regulatory data requests. risk appetite See pages 22 to 23
• The identification, assessment and implementation of the annual report
In 2024, the Group dedicated investment to enhance and accounts
of regulatory and legal requirements by risk
coverage of our regulatory and legal obligations to
specialists, with the involvement of legal colleagues
ensure risk owners obtain prompt access to skilled
as required
compliance risk specialists.
• The establishment of local controls, processes, Changes since 2023
This risk was previously named regulatory and legal risk. procedures and resources to ensure appropriate
Reclassified risk
governance and compliance by business units
Conduct risk
Risk performance and key developments in 2024 Key mitigating actions Risk trends
Conduct risk has been elevated in 2024, with several • Robust policies in place to support good Elevated
areas of ongoing focus driven by legal decisions, customer outcomes, with ongoing focus on utilising
regulatory changes and geopolitical influences. root cause insights, to support the management and Link to strategy
The Group continues to monitor impacts to customers mitigation of complaint volumes See pages 17 to 23
• Active engagement with regulatory bodies and of the annual report
and its risk and control profile, liaising closely with and accounts
key stakeholders to ensure that the Group’s
regulatory bodies regarding the review into motor
strategic conduct focus continues to meet evolving
finance commission arrangements.
stakeholder expectations
The Group continues to enhance its control • Continued focus on strengthening policies, controls Changes since 2023
environment, with mitigating actions and controls in and reporting capabilities to demonstrate good
Reclassified risk
place to deliver good outcomes for customers, protect customer outcomes
market integrity, prevent colleague misconduct and
ensure effective management of concerns raised
through whistleblowing.
Credit risk
Risk performance and key developments in 2024 Key mitigating actions Risk trends
Asset quality remains strong with improved credit • Extensive and thorough credit processes, strategies Improving
performance in the year. In UK mortgages and and controls to ensure effective risk identification,
unsecured portfolios, reductions in new to arrears management and oversight Link to strategy
and flows to default have been observed in 2024. • Significant monitoring in place, including early See pages 17 to 23
Securitisations in primarily legacy Retail mortgages warning indicators of the annual report
and accounts
during 2024 will help mitigate credit risks. The Group’s • Selective credit tightening reflective of forecast
commercial portfolio remains broadly stable and changes in the macroeconomic environment,
resilient. Underlying impairment charge of £433 million, including updates to affordability lending controls
increasing from a charge of £308 million in 2023, which for forward-looking costs Changes since 2023
benefitted from a significant write-back following Unchanged risk
the full repayment of debt from a single name client.
The Group’s expected credit loss allowances
have decreased in the year to £3,651 million
(2023: £4,337 million).
Lloyds Banking Group plc Annual Review 2024
35

--- PAGE 40 ---
Risk overview continued
Economic crime risk
Risk performance and key developments in 2024 Key mitigating actions Risk trends
Economic crime has been promoted to a principal risk • Robust economic crime policy, standard Stable
during 2024. This is a result of increased inherent risks and framework
seen across the industry, to which the Group is also • Implementation of the new Group-wide economic Link to strategy
exposed, driven by the continued geopolitical instability crime prevention strategy See pages 22 to 23
and ever-evolving economic crime threat landscape. • Continued enhancements of our industry-leading of the annual report
and accounts
fraud detection capabilities to respond to
An effective framework is in place to manage risks
evolving threats
associated to bribery and corruption, fraud, money
laundering and sanctions, with business units continuing
Changes since 2023
to deliver action plans to strengthen the control
environment, lower residual risk and respond to changes New principal risk
in regulatory expectations.
Insurance underwriting risk
Risk performance and key developments in 2024 Key mitigating actions Risk trends
Insurance underwriting risk remains stable. Life and • Significant reinsurance of mortality, morbidity and Stable
Pensions present value of new business premium General Insurance weather risk
increased to £18.2 billion (2023: £17.4 billion), driven by • Robust processes for underwriting, reinsurance, Link to strategy
strong performance in the individual annuities and claims management, pricing, product design and See pages 17 to 23
workplace business, partly offset by the agreed sale product management of the annual report
and accounts
(subject to High Court approval) of the in-force bulk • Management through diversification and pooling
annuity portfolio. of risks
General Insurance total gross written premium
Changes since 2023
increased to £737 million (2023: £579 million), due to
strong trading. Unchanged risk
Liquidity risk
Risk performance and key developments in 2024 Key mitigating actions Risk trends
The Group maintained its strong liquidity and funding • Management and monitoring of liquidity risks Stable
position with a loan to deposit ratio of 95 per cent and ensuring that management systems
(2023: 95 per cent). The Group’s liquid assets continue and arrangements are adequate with regard Link to strategy
to exceed the regulatory minimum and internal risk to the internal risk appetite, Group strategy See pages 22 to 23
appetite, with a monthly simple average over the and regulatory requirements of the annual report
and accounts
previous 12-months’ liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) of • Significant customer deposit base, driven by inflows
146 per cent (2023: 142 per cent). The Group maintains to trusted brands
access to diverse sources and tenors of funding. • Participation in term issuance programmes
Changes since 2023
This risk was previously named liquidity and funding risk.
Reclassified risk
Lloyds Banking Group plc Annual Review 2024
36

--- PAGE 41 ---
Market risk
Risk performance and key developments in 2024 Key mitigating actions Risk trends
Market conditions in 2024 have stabilised. The Group • Structural hedge programmes to stabilise earnings Stable
remains well hedged, ensuring near-term interest rate • Close monitoring of market risks and where
exposure is appropriately managed. The Group’s appropriate, undertaking of asset and liability Link to strategy
structural hedge has reduced to £242 billion in 2024 matching and hedging See pages 22 to 23
(2023: £247 billion) mainly due to the changing mix of • Monitoring of the credit allocation in the defined of the annual report
and accounts
customer deposits. benefit pension schemes, as well as the hedges in
place against adverse movements in nominal rates,
The Group completed the triennial valuation of its main
inflation and longevity
defined benefit pension schemes as at 31 December
Changes since 2023
2022. There will be no further deficit contributions
for this triennial period (to 31 December 2025). Unchanged risk
The IAS 19 accounting surplus reduced to £2.9 billion
(2023: £3.5 billion).
Model risk
Risk performance and key developments in 2024 Key mitigating actions Risk trends
Model risk has been stable in 2024, despite changes to • Enhancement of the model risk management Stable
the regulatory environment, such as implementation of framework for managing and mitigating model risk
the PRA’s model risk management principles for banks within the Group Link to strategy
(SS1/23) and continued regulatory scrutiny of model risk • Establishment of an AI assurance framework See pages 22 to 25
across the industry. • Implementation of new model risk management of the annual report
and accounts
policy and supporting standards to further increase
Improvements to the Group’s model risk operating
ownership and accountability
framework have been made during 2024, focusing on
• Initiation of model risk training for key stakeholders,
developing CRD IV models, strengthening capabilities
including Board and GEC members Changes since 2023
of our people through effective training and resources,
• Development of the process for the identification of
and continued proactive regulatory engagement. Reclassified risk
quantitative methods, including models, and cascade
The control environment for model risk continues to across the Group
be enhanced to meet both internal and regulatory
requirements, as well as industry-wide challenges.
Investment in model risk management remains a priority
for the Group to further improve risk management and
act as an enabler to drive strategic developments of AI
and machine learning in a safe way.
Operational risk
Risk performance and key developments in 2024 Key mitigating actions Risk trends
Operational risk has been stable in 2024, with key risks • Deployment of a range of risk management Stable
relating to data and privacy, supplier risk, information, strategies, such as avoidance, mitigation, transfer
cyber and physical security risk. Operational loss (including insurance) and acceptance Link to strategy
event volumes are historically low, with the majority • Three-year control enhancement plans reviewed See pages 22 to 25
relating to transaction processing, IT systems and annually by Board Risk Committee to monitor of the annual report
and accounts
change execution. progress against commitments
• The Group continues to invest strategically to
Whilst there has been continued safe delivery of change,
mitigate operational risks, strengthen controls
some IT outages in the supply chain have occurred. No
and to meet future operational resilience Changes since 2023
material security breaches took place in 2024, though
regulatory requirements
some events at third-party suppliers reinforces the need Reclassified risk
• Following IT outages, post-incident reviews
for vigilance.
undertaken to assess future mitigating actions
Balancing people-related transformation and other for the Group and its suppliers
strategic initiatives remains key to the success of the • Enhancement of skills, capabilities and reporting
Group’s transformation activity, with ongoing focus on to strengthen supplier management practices
evolving the operational risk framework and ensuring the
appropriate resource and capabilities are in place.
Lloyds Banking Group plc Annual Review 2024
37

--- PAGE 42 ---
Risk overview continued
Emerging and topical risks including the Board Risk Committee, with actions assigned to
monitor more closely their future manifestation, potential business
During 2024, the Group has continued to evolve and strengthen growth and opportunities to reduce risk.
its methodology to identify, assess and prioritise emerging risks.
The emerging risk themes were also considered as part of the annual
Horizon scanning remains a key element in understanding and
strategic planning cycle. Geopolitical risks, and how these may
adapting to the changing risk landscape.
generate second order impacts for the Group, have been a focus.
In order to better reflect the persistent nature of these risks and
Many emerging and topical risk topics are reviewed on a recurring
recognise the potential for changing impacts on the Group and its
basis, alongside ongoing activity addressing their impacts. However,
customers, the Group has shifted its focus from horizon risks to
it is acknowledged that the nature of the emerging risks will evolve
topical risks.
and could drive future trends in the long term, which the Group will
The Group has also refined its emerging and topical risk themes need to prepare for.
in 2024, enabling a deeper understanding of the underlying drivers
Looking ahead to 2025, the Group will continue to develop its
and stronger management focus on the most pertinent emerging
strategy to proactively identify and monitor internal and external
risks. An overview of these themes is shown below, with more
trends and consider effective measures to best protect its
information on the changes provided on page 143 of the annual
customers, colleagues and shareholders.
report and accounts.
For further details on how the Group is managing, monitoring and
Emerging and topical risks remain an area of ongoing focus for the
mitigating key emerging and topical risks, see page 143 of the annual
Group’s Board and senior management. During the year, a series of
report and accounts, with a summary of key matters discussed at
deep dives on the emerging risk themes reported at year end 2023
Board Risk Committee on pages 104 to 108 of the annual report
have taken place at key executive and board-level committees,
and accounts.
Emerging and topical risk themes
Emerging and
topical risks
03 04
02 05
Principal risks
01 06
01 03 05
Consumer expectations Evolution of technology, Regulatory agendas and expectations
and market dynamics AI and cybercrime The impact of:
Consumer expectations: Customers are Failure to keep pace with, or choosing not to • Potential political demands for tighter
increasingly seeking personalised, transparent participate in, technological advancements consumer protections
and digitally enhanced experiences, coupled including AI, migration to cloud platform and • Market interventions, leading to sudden
with reduced loyalty, which elevates the risk of blockchain solutions whilst balancing the regulatory shifts
failing to meet expectations and delivering competing requirements to: • Evolving expectations on regulatory bodies
poor outcomes. The role social media is • Maximise customer opportunities and impact on financial services
increasingly playing in influencing consumers’ through adoption • New entrants in the market benefitting
finance decisions further increases this. • Maintain trust and confidence in customer from regulatory arbitrage
Consideration also needs to be made to a large data privacy • Environmental, social and governance
section of society that are not digitally literate • Protect our customers from fraud, cyber expectations associated with its operations
that are potentially being left behind and and economic crime and investments
balancing the cost of enhancing the digital • Ensure transparency on data ethics
services and supporting customers that wish to practices 06
be served in a traditional way. • Adhere to evolving data protection
regulations UK economic and
Market dynamics: The rapid proliferation of
new, often loss-leading financial products in • Prepare for potential business model political environment
disruption caused by adoption
the market intensifies competition. Consumers Failure to anticipate the longer-term impacts
of the technology
may be attracted in the short term. This can of a weak UK economy, quantitative
create long-term sustainability challenges for tightening, change in government and
providers and increase the risk of mis-selling or 04 resulting policy, regulatory shifts and the
unsuitable offerings. consequences of the UK becoming less
Global economic and attractive to external investors.
geopolitical environment
02
Inability to navigate changing international
Evolution of operating model regulations, including sanction and trade
Failure to adequately prepare for disruption of compliance, economic fragmentation,
service, third or fourth party supplier failure, deglobalisation, global health shifts and
technology outages, severe data loss, whilst geopolitical events that may impact
evolving the structure and skillset of a dynamic operations, customers and suppliers.
workforce in line with the Group’s strategy,
alongside maintaining pace with the industry
and delivering strong customer outcomes.
Lloyds Banking Group plc Annual Review 2024
38

--- PAGE 43 ---
Viability statement and going concern
Viability statement The scenarios used for stress testing are designed to consider a
range of plausible risks, vulnerabilities and severities, and take
The directors have an obligation under the UK Corporate account of the availability and likely effectiveness of mitigating
Governance Code to state whether they believe the Company actions that could be taken by management to avoid or reduce the
and the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet their impact or occurrence of the underlying risks. The Group conducts
liabilities as they fall due over a specified period determined by the internal stress testing and completes the PRA regulatory exercises.
directors, taking account of the current position and the principal In 2024, stress tests have considered a range of economic scenarios
risks of the Company and the Group. covering multiple outlooks and economic paths, including differing
downward interest rates paths and a range of severity in other key
In making this assessment, the directors have considered a wide
economic factors. Group stress results are segmented to provide
range of information, including:
insight, inform risk appetite, and allow for development of
• The principal risks and emerging and topical risks which could
mitigating actions. In considering the likely effectiveness of such
impact the performance of the Group
actions, the conclusions of the Board’s regular monitoring and
• The 2022 Strategic Review which sets out the Group’s customer
review of risk and internal control systems, as discussed on pages
and business strategy for the period from 2022 to 2026
137 to 198 of the annual report and accounts, is taken into account.
• The Group’s operating plan which comprises detailed financial,
Further information on stress testing and reverse stress testing is
capital and funding projections together with an assessment
provided on page 142 of the annual report and accounts.
of relevant risk factors for the period from 2025 to 2027 inclusive
• Stress testing outputs are presented to the Board Risk
Group, legal entities and divisional operating plans are produced and Committee for review and challenge. All regulatory exercises
subject to rigorous stress testing on an annual basis. The planning are approved by the Board
process takes account of the Group’s business objectives, the risks • The final operating plan, Risk function assessment and the
taken to seek to meet those objectives and the controls in place to results of the stress testing are presented to the Board for
mitigate those risks to ensure they remain within the Group’s overall approval. Once approved, the operating plan drives detailed
risk appetite. divisional and Group targets for the following year
The Group’s annual planning process comprises the following The directors have specifically assessed the prospects of the
key stages: Company and the Group over the current plan period. The Board
• The Board reviews and agrees the Group’s strategy, risk appetite considers that a three-year period continues to present a reasonable
and objectives in the context of the operating environment and degree of confidence over expected events and macroeconomic
external market commitments assumptions, while still providing an appropriate longer-term
• The divisional teams develop their operating plans, ensuring outlook. Information relevant to the assessment can be found in the
that they are in line with the Group’s strategy and risk appetite following sections of the annual report and accounts:
• The financial projections and underlying assumptions in respect • The Group’s principal activities, business and operating models
of expected market and business changes, emerging and future and strategic direction are described in the strategic report on
expected legal, accounting and regulatory changes, are subject pages 1 to 44 of the annual report and accounts
to rigorous review and challenge from both divisional and • Emerging and topical risks are disclosed on page 143 of the
Group executives annual report and accounts
• In addition, the Board obtains independent assurance from the • The principal risks, including the Group’s objectives, policies and
Risk function over the alignment of the plan with Group strategy processes for managing credit, capital, liquidity and funding, are
and the Board’s risk appetite. This assessment performed by the provided in the risk management section on pages 138 to 198
Risk function also identifies the key risks to delivery of the of the annual report and accounts
Group’s operating plan • The Group’s approach to stress testing and reverse stress testing,
• The planning process is also underpinned by a robust capital including both regulatory and internal stresses, is described on
and funding stress testing framework. This framework allows page 142 of the annual report and accounts
the Group to assess compliance of the operating plan with
Based upon this assessment, the directors have a reasonable
the Group’s risk appetite
expectation that the Company and the Group will be able to
continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due
over the next three years to 31 December 2027.
Going concern
The going concern of the Company and the Group is dependent The directors have also taken into account the impact of further
on successfully funding their respective balance sheets and stress scenarios as well as a number of other key dependencies
maintaining adequate levels of capital. which are set out in the risk management section under principal
risks and uncertainties: funding and liquidity on pages 183 to 189
In order to satisfy themselves that the Company and the Group
of the annual report and accounts and capital position on
have adequate resources to continue to operate for the
pages 144 to 150 of the annual report and accounts. Additionally,
foreseeable future, the directors have reviewed the Group’s
the directors have considered the capital and funding projections
operating plan and its funding and capital positions, including
of the Company.
a consideration of the implications of climate change.
Accordingly, the directors conclude that the Company and
the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational
existence for a period of at least 12 months from the date of
the approval of the financial statements and therefore it is
appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in
preparing the accounts.
Lloyds Banking Group plc Annual Review 2024
39

--- PAGE 44 ---
Section 172(1) statement
Effective stakeholder
engagement is fundamental
to good governance
Stakeholder engagement takes place at all levels within the Group
and is an important part of how we are delivering on our purpose Section 172(1)
of Helping Britain Prosper.
The Board recognises that engaging with its stakeholders is key to
achieving the strategy and long-term objectives of Lloyds Banking statement
Group plc (the Company). Managing and understanding their
interests forms a key part of the Board’s ongoing activities and
training and the Board delegates day-to-day engagement with
stakeholders to senior management as part of running the business. This section (pages 40 to 41 of the annual report and accounts)
is our Section 172(1) statement for the purposes of the
The Board considers its stakeholders when making decisions. To gain
Companies Act 2006 (the Act), describing how the directors
an understanding of their perspectives, the Board receives feedback
have had regard to the matters set out in section 172(1) (a) to (f)
from stakeholders through engagement both inside and outside of
of the Act when performing their duty to promote the success
the board room. Senior management supports Board decision-
of the Company under section 172. Further detail on key
making by addressing stakeholder implications in proposals
stakeholder interaction is also contained within the directors’
submitted to the Board for consideration and routinely provides
report on pages 86 to 87 of the annual report and accounts.
the Board with details of stakeholder interactions.
The directors remain mindful in all their deliberations of
the long-term consequences of their decisions, as well as the
Key Board discussions and decisions
importance of the Group maintaining a reputation for high
Stakeholder and strategy key standards of business conduct and the Board engaging with,
and taking account of the views of, key stakeholders.
Stakeholders
The three key Board decisions outlined in this section
Customers and clients Colleagues (Customer-focused strategy, Consumer Duty and Operational
resilience) illustrate how the Board is engaged in key decisions.
Shareholders Communities and environment
Regulators and government Suppliers
Link to strategy
Grow Focus Change
Board considerations:
Stakeholder impact The Board has an ongoing commitment to understanding and
addressing customer needs which is central to achieving the Group’s
strategic ambitions.
Link to strategy
Board initiatives:
• In February, the Board approved targets for an enhanced Group
Customer Dashboard (GCD) which reflects the Group’s strategy,
consists of a set of measures to evaluate and monitor customer
experience and includes increasing focus on the customer view of
the Group, customer experience and customer insights. The
Board supported steps taken by the executive to simplify and
personalise customer journeys including in relation to its digital
transformation and noted enhanced targets for Insurance,
Pensions & Investments (IP&I) including a commitment to
increase digitisation across customer journeys
• In May, the Board considered the Group’s focus to deepen
Customer- customer relationships both across the Group and within IP&I
and the progress made on bancassurance
Future focus:
focused strategy
The Board will continue to put the customer at the heart of its
decision making and remain focused on how the Group can best
support its customers and enhance the customer experience.
Lloyds Banking Group plc Annual Review 2024
40

--- PAGE 45 ---
Stakeholder impact
Link to strategy
Consumer
Duty
Board considerations: • In June, the Board approved an assessment that the Group is
In 2024 the Board and its Responsible Business Committee delivering good outcomes for its customers consistent with the
considered the Group’s progressive approach to implementation Duty as well as a tripartite approach to oversight of the Duty
of the Financial Conduct Authority’s (FCA) Consumer Duty (the as between the Board, its Board Risk Committee and its
Duty) requirements to deliver good outcomes for customers in Responsible Business Committee
line with the Group’s customer-centric strategy.
Future focus:
Board initiatives: The Board is aware that the Group’s approach to Consumer Duty
• The Board and its Responsible Business Committee received compliance will evolve over time and the Board will continue to
updates during 2024 regarding the Group’s approach to the be updated on progress in 2025. Regular engagement with
second implementation period regarding closed products and customers will continue to be a priority for the Board.
services and on the transition to embedding the Duty further
into the Group’s culture
Board considerations:
Stakeholder impact The Board considers operational resilience and sound risk
management to be fundamental for customers and to the strength
of the Group and its long-term success.
Link to strategy
Board initiatives:
• In 2024 the Board approved significant investment in the Group’s
operational resilience including new investment relating to
people, processes, data and technology
• In March, deep dives on operational resilience were undertaken
by the IT and Cyber Advisory Forum, the Board Risk Committee
and the Board and the Boards of Lloyds Bank plc and Bank of
Scotland plc approved the Ring-Fenced Bank Operational
Resilience Self-Assessment
• In September, the Board considered a review of the Group’s
Board Risk Appetite Metrics (BRAMs) relating to operational
resilience and approved the inclusion of 10 operational resilience
Operational BRAMs in the Q1 2025 BRAMs refresh
Future focus:
resilience The Board will continue to monitor operational resilience
capabilities in 2025 and will maintain focus on response, recovery
and remediation plans until 2027.
Lloyds Banking Group plc Annual Review 2024
41

--- PAGE 46 ---
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
Creating a sustainable and inclusive future is core to our purpose We have referenced specific pages where additional detail and
of Helping Britain Prosper. We report on sustainability matters technical content relevant to our TCFD disclosures can be found
throughout the annual report and accounts (ARA), in particular in the table below.
in the following sections: (i) Strategic report, pages 30 to 32 and
In addition to the compliance below, in-scope entities within
42 to 44; (ii) Sustainability review on pages 45 to 60; (iii) Risk
our Insurance, Pensions and Investments business, which are
management on pages 150 to 153; (iv) Governance pages 88 to 89;
incorporated as part of Scottish Widows Group, are required to
and (v) in the supplementary sustainability report.
report in compliance with FCA ESG Sourcebook (set out via FCA
We comply with the UKLR 6.6.6R(8) and Sections 414CA and 414CB PS21/24) reporting requirements for the period ending 31 December
of the UK Companies Act 2006. Set out in the following table are 2024. This additional compliance will be met through Entity and
our disclosures which are presented consistent with the 2021 TCFD Product level reporting to be published on the Scottish Widows
recommendations and recommended disclosures across all four of website in June 2025.
the TCFD pillars: strategy; governance; risk management; and
We will continue to assess and develop our disclosures against the
metrics and targets, requirements under Sections 414CA and 414CB
TCFD recommendations and recommended disclosures, considering
have been considered by cross-reference.
relevant TCFD guidance and materials along with new disclosure
Additional detail on our progress against our metrics and targets requirements such as International Sustainability Standards Board:
can be found in our sustainability report 2024 . Our separate IFRS S1 ‘General requirements’ IFRS S2 ‘Climate-related disclosures’.
supplement ensures we can provide a comprehensive response,
that is presented in a decision-useful manner for users of the reports.
TCFD and CFD cross-reference table
Reference (ARA unless
Recommendation Summary of progress specified otherwise)
Strategy
A. D escribe the climate-related • Defined the key climate-related risks and opportunities across the Group and Pages 50 to 52
risks and opportunities the identified the potential time horizons (aligned with Group financial planning)
organisation has identified over over which they may arise
the short, medium and long
• Identifying and assessing our principal risks allows us to understand where we have Pages 50 to 52
term. (Companies Act 2006 –
the opportunities to deliver impact. With opportunities identified, assessed and
Sections 414CA and 414CB
managed by functional-level and divisional teams
2A (b) and (d))
• Disclosures made on the cross-cutting nature of climate risks and how this can Pages 50 to 51
impact a broad range of principal risks
Pages 150 to 153
B. D escribe the impact of • The Group’s financial statements consider the impact of climate-related risks on our Page 150 to 151
climate-related risks and financial position and performance, including consideration of the impact on
Notes to financial
opportunities on the expected credit losses in 2024
statements
organisation’s business, strategy
and financial planning. Page 229 and 283
(Companies Act 2006 –
• Continued to embed climate risk into our financial planning process with financed Page 60
Sections 414CA and 414CB
emissions ambitions considered as part of the forecasting process
2A (e))
• Embedded monitoring of sector targets, as reported in our Group climate transition Page 60
plan, into the internal reporting process with the aim to support climate
considerations forming part of the Group’s regular decision making
C. D escribe the resilience of the • We have assessed the resilience of our lending and investment portfolio to climate Page 53
organisation’s strategy, taking risk based on sector exposure
into consideration different
• We have used climate scenario analysis to assess the impact on expected credit loss Page 229
climate-related scenarios,
for climate-related physical and transition risk on our Retail and Commercial
including a 2°C or lower
Banking lending portfolio
scenario. (Companies Act 2006
– Sections 414CA and 414CB • We have noted that our Commercial Banking lending exposure to sectors with Page 53 and
2A (f)) increased impacts from climate risk is relatively low 150 to 151
Governance
A. D escribe the Board’s oversight • Our governance structure provides clear oversight and ownership of the Group’s Pages 88 to 89
of climate-related risks and environmental sustainability strategy and management of risks and opportunities at
opportunities. (Companies Act the Board and executive levels
2006 – Sections 414CA and
• The Board received nine specific updates on climate-related matters in 2024, Page 88 to 89
414CB 2A (a))
including updates on our strategy, progress against targets and ambitions and
climate-related impacts on the four-year forecast
B. Describe management’s role in • The Group Net Zero Committee provides direction and oversight of the Group’s Pages 88
assessing and managing environmental sustainability strategy including opportunities, supported by
climate-related risks and divisional governance
opportunities. (Companies Act
• The Group Risk Committee provides oversight of climate risk Page 88
2006 – Sections 414CA and
414CB 2A (a)) • Key committee oversight in 2024 included external sector updates, evolving Page 89
regulatory environment and Group-wide framework to mitigate greenwashing risks
Lloyds Banking Group plc Annual Review 2024
42

--- PAGE 47 ---
TCFD and CFD cross-reference table continued
Reference (ARA unless
Recommendation Summary of progress specified otherwise)
Risk management
A. D escribe the organisation’s • The enterprise risk management framework supports the identification and Page 34
processes for identifying and assessment of the Group’s material risks (including climate which has been identified
Pages 150 to 153
assessing climate-related risks. as a principal risk). Key climate-related risks have been identified at Group level
(Companies Act 2006 – across four themes: net zero; greenwashing; disclosures; inbound physical and
Sections 414CA and 414CB transition risks
2A (b)
• The materiality of these risks has been assessed based on their potential impact on
the Group, with scenario analysis outputs used to inform this in key areas
B. D escribe the organisation’s • We have identified four key areas of climate risk: net zero, disclosures, greenwashing Pages 150 to 153
processes for managing climate and physical and transition risks; with management processes differing across the
related risks. (Companies Act risk types
2006 – Sections 414CA and • We are continuing to embed consideration of climate risk within our existing risk
414CB 2A (b)) management processes to mitigate the cross-cutting impacts of climate risk
• We have developed some initial controls for managing these risks, although we
expect to continue to enhance these as our understanding evolves
C. D escribe how processes for • Climate risk is embedded into our Enterprise Risk Management Framework, through Pages 150 to 153
identifying, assessing, and consideration of climate risk as its own principal risk, and integration into other
managing climate-related risks principal risks materially impacted
are integrated into the
• The Group climate risk policy provides an overarching framework for the
organisation’s overall risk
management of climate risks across the Group
management. (Companies Act
2006 – Sections 414CA and
414CB 2A (c))
Metrics and targets
A. D isclose the metrics used by • We monitor progress against our net zero ambitions and targets, including measures Pages 54 to 60
the organisation to assess related to our financed emissions, own operations emissions, supply chain emissions
climate-related risks and and sustainable finance and investment. We also monitor our progress in relation to
opportunities in line with its our 10 NZBA sector targets
strategy and risk management
• To support us to achieve our ambitions and targets sustainability measures form Pages 121 and 131
process (Companies Act 2006
part of the Group balanced scorecard and Long-Term Incentive Plan
– Sections 414CA and 414CB Sustainability report
2A (h)) 2024 page 140
TCFD supplemental guidance • Our exposure to sectors with increased climate risk has been analysed, and used to Sustainability report
set our bank emission ambition and Net Zero Banking Alliance (NZBA) sector targets 2024 pages 80 to 81
B. D isclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and, • We have disclosed our Scope 3 emissions for our supply chain and financed Pages 54 to 59
if appropriate, Scope 3 emissions. We continue to develop our approach to calculating our Scope 3
Sustainability report
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions; in 2024 we have extended the scope of our disclosure to include
2024 pages 83 to 84
emissions, and the related risks. sovereign debt and facilitated emissions
and 122
(Companies Act 2006 –
Sections 414CA and 414CB • Our Scope 1 and 2 emissions for own operations have been reported in line with Pages 59 to 60
2A (h)) Streamlined Energy Carbon Reporting requirements
TCFD supplemental guidance • We calculate our emissions in line with GHG Protocol as outlined within our basis of Sustainability metrics
reporting, which includes details on our approach to all 15 categories of Scope 3 basis of reporting 2024
GHG reporting pages 4 to 40
TCFD supplemental guidance • In June 2024 Scottish Widows published entity and product level TCFD reporting in Scottish Widows fund
compliance with the FCA ESG Sourcebook (set out via FCA PS21/24). The next climate related
annual reports will be published by June 2025 disclosure reports
C. D escribe the targets used by • We have defined sustainable financing and investment targets for our core Pages 56 to 57
the organisation to manage business areas
climate-related risks and
• We have set emissions ambitions across Own Operations, Supply Chain, Bank Pages 54 to 60
opportunities and performance
Financed Emissions and Scottish Widows financed emissions. With most of the
against targets. (Companies
ambitions supported by more detailed targets and pledges
Act 2006 – Sections 414CA and
414CB 2A (g)) • Further details on additional metrics used for monitoring purposes can be found in Pages 51 to 52
our risks and opportunities table
Lloyds Banking Group plc Annual Review 2024
43

--- PAGE 48 ---
Non-financial and sustainability information statement
The Non-Financial Reporting requirements contained in Sections 414CA and 414CB of the Companies Act 2006 are addressed within this
section. The table below provides the information necessary to understand our Group’s development, performance and position and the
impact of our activity relating to environmental matters, our employees, social matters, our respect for human rights, and anti-corruption
and anti-bribery matters. We provide cross references to indicate in which part of the Group’s reporting the respective requirements
are embedded.
Non-financial and sustainability information reference table
Information necessary to understand our Group Reference to the
Statement and its impact, policies, due diligence and outcomes annual report and accounts
Business model Our business model Pages 8 to 11
Our approach to sustainability materiality and value chain Pages 48 to 49
Our Sustainability Strategy Pages 48
Progress and performance based on key non-financial metrics Pages 28 to 29 and 51 to 60
Principal risks Risk overview including enterprise risk management framework Pages 33 to 38
Climate risk Pages 34 and 150 to 153
Economic crime risk Pages 36 and 181
Operational risk Pages 37 and 196 to 198
Conduct risk Pages 35 and 154 to 155
Stakeholders Stakeholder engagement Pages 40 to 41 and 84 to 87
Further information on how we support our stakeholders is included within
the Code of ethics and responsibility and internal colleague policies
including Colleague policy1, Health and Safety policy1 and Speak up policy1
which are summarised in our sustainability report 2024
Environmental Transition to net zero and our progress on ambitions and targets Pages 54 to 60
sustainability Identification, assessment and management of climate risk Pages 150 to 153
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Pages 42 to 43
Climate-related financial disclosures (CFD) Pages 42 to 43
Policies which support our approach to environmental sustainability include
our sector statements
Social Social sustainability risk arises through operational, conduct and Pages 50 to 52
credit risk with identified risks and opportunities disclosed along with
sustainability
associated metrics
Core to our purpose, our sustainability strategy identified four social Page 10, 30 to 31 and 46 to 49
sustainability focus areas, where we can make the biggest difference, while
creating opportunities for our future growth. Further detail is included in
the sustainability report 2024
Anti-corruption The Group has a dedicated Economic Crime Prevention (ECP) function. Page 36, 140 and 181
The ECP policy sets out the minimum requirements to which all Group
and bribery
businesses must comply across anti-bribery and corruption (ABC);
anti-money laundering and counterterrorist financing (AML); fraud;
sanctions; and tax evasion. Economic crime is treated as a principal risk
Further policies which support our approach include: Anti-bribery policy
statement and Code of ethics and responsibility
Human rights and The Group is committed to operating in accordance with internationally
accepted human rights standards and with all relevant legislation including
modern slavery
the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015. The Group’s approach to human rights is
supported by several Group policies and programmes including: Our Code
of Supplier Responsibilities which sets out the key social, ethical and
environmental values and behaviours that we want our suppliers to abide
by. Human rights policy statement , Modern slavery and human trafficking
statement and our colleague policy1, data privacy policy1, data ethics
policy1 and cyber security policy1 which has been summarised within the
sustainability report 2024
Topic is considered as part of conduct, economic crime and operational risk Pages 35 to 37
Activities to support our colleagues and promote Diversity, Equity Pages 30 to 32
and Inclusion
Governance Key board discussions and decisions Pages 40 to 41
Sustainability governance Pages 88 to 89
1 Certain Group policies, internal standards and guidelines are not published externally.
Lloyds Banking Group plc Annual Review 2024
44

--- PAGE 49 ---
Shareholder information
Annual report and accounts Share dealing for the Lloyds Banking Group
This annual review summarises information from the Lloyds shareholder account
Banking Group annual report and accounts. As such, there is
Share dealing services for the Lloyds Banking Group shareholder
insufficient information to provide a full understanding of the
account are provided by Equiniti Shareview Dealing, operated by
results and state of affairs of Lloyds Banking Group. A copy of our
Equiniti Financial Services Limited. Details of the services provided
annual report and accounts can be obtained from our registrar,
can be found either on the shareholder information page of our
Equiniti Limited (see below) and is available on our website at
website or by contacting Equiniti using the contact details
www.lloydsbankinggroup.com . provided on the next page.
Annual general meeting (AGM) Individual Saving Accounts (ISAs)
The annual general meeting will be held at the Edinburgh There are a number of options for investing in Lloyds Banking Group
International Conference Centre, The Exchange, Edinburgh EH3 8EE shares through an ISA. For details of services and products provided
on Thursday 15 May 2025 at 11am. Further details about the meeting, by the Group please contact Bank of Scotland Share Dealing,
including the proposed resolutions and where shareholders can Halifax Share Dealing or Lloyds Bank Direct Investments using the
stream the meeting live, can be found in our Notice of AGM which contact details above.
will be available shortly on our website .
American Depositary Receipts (ADRs)
Share dealing facilities
Our shares are traded in the USA through a New York Stock
We offer a choice of four share dealing services for our UK Exchange-listed sponsored ADR facility with The Bank of New York
shareholders and customers. Please search for ‘share dealing’ within Mellon as the depositary. The ADRs are traded on the New York
the website links provided below, where you can also view the full Stock Exchange under the symbol LYG. The CUSIP number is
range of services available. Alternatively, please use the additional 539439109 and the ratio of ADRs to ordinary shares is 1:4.
contact details below.
For details contact:
Service Provider Telephone Dealing BNY Shareowner Services, 150 Royall St., Suite 101 Canton, MA
02021. Telephone: 1-866-259-0336 (US toll free),
Bank of Scotland Share Dealing
international callers: +1 201-680-6825. Alternatively visit www.
www.bankofscotland.co.uk/sharedealing 0345 606 1188
adrbny.com or email shrrelations@cpushareownerservices.com.
Halifax Share Dealing
www.halifax.co.uk/sharedealing 03457 22 55 25 Security – share fraud and scams
Lloyds Bank Direct Investments Shareholders should exercise caution when unsolicited callers offer
www.lloydsbank.com/share-dealing.asp 0345 60 60 560 the chance to buy or sell shares with promises of huge returns. If it
sounds too good to be true, it usually is and we would ask that
IWeb Share Dealing
shareholders take steps to protect themselves. We strongly
www.iweb-sharedealing.co.uk/ 03450 707 129
recommend seeking advice from an independent financial adviser
authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Shareholders
Note:
All internet services are available 24/7. Telephone dealing services are available between can verify whether a firm is authorised via the Financial Services
8am and 9pm, Monday to Friday, excluding English and Welsh public holidays. To open a Register which is available at www.fca.org.uk .
share dealing account with any of these services, you must be 18 years of age or over and be
resident in the UK, Jersey, Guernsey or the Isle of Man. If a shareholder is concerned that they may have been targeted by
such a scheme, please contact the FCA Consumer Helpline on
0800 111 6768 or use the online ‘Share Fraud Reporting Form’
available from their website (see above). We would also recommend
contacting the Police through Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040 or
visiting www.actionfraud.org.uk for further information.
Important shareholder and registrar information
Company website Your communications,
www.lloydsbankinggroup.com your choice – go digital!
• Receive company communications like this by email
• Buy and sell shares
Shareholder information
• Manage your shareholding online
help.shareview.co.uk
(from here you will be able to email your query securely) Step 1
Register at
Registrar www.shareview.co.uk/info/register
Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, or by scanning the QR code
West Sussex BN99 6DA
Shareholder helpline
Scan here
+44 (0) 371 384 2990* (please use the country code when to register
contacting Equiniti Limited from outside the UK)
* L ines are open 8:30am to 5:30pm (UK time), Monday to Step 2
Friday (excluding public holidays in England and Wales).
Follow the on-screen instructions
For deaf and speech impaired customers, we welcome calls to complete your registration
via Relay UK. See www.relayuk.bt.com for more
information.
The company registrar is Equiniti Limited. They provide Step 3
a shareholder service, including a telephone helpline Log on and update your
and shareview which is a free secure portfolio service. communications choice
Lloyds Banking Group plc Annual Review 2024
45

--- PAGE 50 ---
Our Board
Appointed: October 2020 (Board), Robin spent 25 years advising UK companies
Sir Robin January 2021 (Chair) and the UK Government while working for S.G.
Budenberg CBE Skills, experience and contribution: Warburg/UBS Investment Bank and was formerly
Chair • Extensive financial services and investment Chief Executive and Chairman of UK Financial
banking experience Investments (UKFI), managing the Government’s
• Strong governance and strategic advisory skills investments in UK banks following the
in relation to companies and government 2008 financial crisis. He is qualified as a
• Regulatory, public policy and stakeholder Chartered Accountant.
NG management experience Key external appointments:
Re Chair of The Crown Estate.
RB
Appointed: August 2021 Management and Digital, as well as Global Chief
Charlie Nunn Skills, experience and contribution: Operating Officer of Retail Banking and Wealth
Executive director • Extensive financial services experience including Management. Charlie began his career at
and Group in chief executive and other leadership roles Accenture, where he worked for 13 years in the US,
Chief Executive • Strategic planning and implementation France, Switzerland and the UK before being made
• Extensive experience of digital transformation a Partner. He then moved to McKinsey & Co. as a
Senior Partner, leading on projects for five years.
Charlie has over 25 years’ experience in the financial Key external appointments:
services sector. Prior to joining the Group, Charlie None
held a range of leadership positions at HSBC,
including Global Chief Executive, Wealth and
Personal Banking, and Group Head of Wealth
Appointed: August 2019 for over 25 years and previously held a number of
William Chalmers Skills, experience and contribution: senior roles at Morgan Stanley, including Co-Head of
Executive director • Significant board level strategic and financial the Global Financial Institutions Group and Head of
and Chief leadership experience EMEA Financial Institutions Group. Before joining
Financial Officer • Strategic planning and development, mergers Morgan Stanley, William worked for J. P. Morgan,
and acquisitions, equity and debt capital again in the Financial Institutions Group.
structuring and risk management Key external appointments:
None
William joined the Board in August 2019, when he
was appointed Chief Financial Officer and was
Interim Group Chief Executive from May 2021 to
August 2021. William has worked in financial services
Appointed: November 2022 (Board), Cathy has significant financial services experience,
Cathy Turner September 2023 (Senior Independent Director) having worked in senior executive positions at
Senior Independent Skills, experience and contribution: Barclays plc and at the Group. Cathy has previously
Director • Significant executive and non-executive financial been a Non-Executive Director and Chair of the
services experience Remuneration Committee of Aldermore Group plc,
• Knowledge of complex remuneration matters Quilter plc and Countrywide plc.
• Communications expertise with a broad range of Key external appointments:
stakeholders including investors, regulators, Non-Executive Director of Rentokil Initial plc and
BR government, media and unions Senior Independent Director of Spectris plc.
NG Partner on a part-time basis at Manchester Square
Partners LLP.
Re
Appointed: August 2024 director and Group Chief Financial Officer of RBS
Nathan Bostock Skills, experience and contribution: and previously held the post of Chief Risk Officer at
Independent • A wealth of financial, risk and regulatory expertise RBS. Before joining RBS, Nathan held various senior
non-executive director • Extensive experience in large-scale customer and positions at Santander UK plc between 2004 and
and Chair of Lloyds corporate facing businesses 2009, including Executive Director, Finance Director
• Significant executive experience in the financial and commercial Chief Executive Officer roles
Bank Corporate
services industry in Financial Markets and Corporate Banking
Markets plc
Nathan was Chief Executive Officer of Santander and in Cards and Insurance. He is qualified
UK plc from 2014 until 2022 and then Head of as a Chartered Accountant.
A Investment Platforms at Banco Santander S.A. until Key external appointments:
his retirement from Santander in 2023. Prior to Non-Executive Director of Centrica plc.
BR
joining Santander in 2014, Nathan was an executive
Appointed: December 2019 Sarah has spent her entire executive career in
Sarah Legg Skills, experience and contribution: financial services with almost 30 years at HSBC.
Independent • Strong financial leadership and regulatory She was the Group Financial Controller, a Group
non-executive reporting skills General Manager and CFO for HSBC’s Asia Pacific
director • Significant audit and risk experience in region. She also spent eight years as a Non-
financial leadership Executive Director of Hang Seng Bank Limited.
• Strong transformation programme experience Key external appointments:
Non-Executive Director of Severn Trent plc,
A Non-Executive Director of Man Group plc and a
BR Trustee of the Lloyds Bank Foundation for England
and Wales.
RB
Lloyds Banking Group plc Annual Review 2024
46

--- PAGE 51 ---
Appointed: October 2018 role, she was a member of Aviva’s Group
Amanda Mackenzie Skills, experience and contribution: Executive for seven years as Chief Marketing and
LVO OBE • Extensive experience in ESG matters including Communications Officer and was seconded to
Independent non- responsible business and sustainability help launch the United Nations Sustainable
executive director • Strong customer engagement and digital Development Goals. She is also a former Director
technology experience of British Airways AirMiles, BT, Hewlett Packard Inc
A • Significant marketing and brand background and British Gas.
Key external appointments:
NG Amanda was Chief Executive of Business in the Non-Executive Director of The British Land
Re Community, of which King Charles III is the Royal Company plc, Chair of The Queen’s Reading Room
Founding Patron and which promotes responsible and Chair and partner of Otherwise Partners LLP.
RB
business and corporate responsibility. Prior to that
Appointed: November 2021 Harmeen was appointed Chief Digital and
Harmeen Mehta Skills, experience and contribution: Innovation Officer at BT in April 2021. Prior to
Independent • Over 25 years’ experience leading digital and that role, she spent seven years as Global Chief
non-executive complex transformation Information Officer and Head of Cyber Security and
director • Experience of building and running technology- Cloud Business at Bharti Airtel, leading its cloud and
led businesses and creating new ventures security businesses. Earlier in her career, Harmeen
• A wealth of international and financial services held CIO positions at BBVA, HSBC and Bank of
knowledge having lived in 11 countries and America Merrill Lynch.
worked across 30 countries on six continents Key external appointments:
Chief Digital and Innovation Officer at BT.
Appointed: August 2022 (Board), Centrica plc between 2020 and 2024. He was
Scott Wheway September 2022 (Chair of Scottish Widows Group) formerly Chair of AXA UK plc, Chair of Aviva
Independent Skills, experience and contribution: Insurance Limited, a Non-Executive Director of
non-executive • Significant financial services board and Aviva plc and Senior Independent Director of
director and Chair chair experience Santander UK plc. He worked as an executive in
• Extensive knowledge and experience of the retail sector for over 25 years where he held
of Scottish Widows
large-scale banking and insurance businesses positions including chief executive officer of Best
Group
• Track record as a non-executive and executive in Buy Europe, managing director of Boots the
customer-centric companies Chemist plc and a number of senior executive
BR positions at Tesco plc.
Scott was a Non-Executive Director of Centrica plc Key external appointments:
NG
between 2016 and 2020 and served as Chair of None.
Appointed: March 2020 Catherine is a former Deputy Chair and Senior
Catherine Woods Skills, experience and contribution: Independent Director of AIB Group plc where she
Independent • Extensive executive experience of also chaired the Board Audit Committee. In her
non-executive international financial institutions executive career with J.P. Morgan Securities, she
director • Deep experience of risk and was Vice President, European Financial Institutions,
transformation oversight Mergers and Acquisitions, and Vice President
• Strong focus on culture and Equity Research Department, forming the European
corporate governance Banks Team.
A Key external appointments:
BR Deputy Chair of BlackRock Asset Management
Ireland Limited.
Re
Kate Cheetham Appointed: July 2019 (Company Secretary) Kate became Group General Counsel
Chief Legal Officer Skills, experience and contribution: (now Chief Legal Officer) in May 2015 and
• Significant legal and governance leadership Company Secretary in July 2019. Kate joined the
and Company
experience within financial services Group in 2005 from Linklaters, where she was
Secretary
• Strategic functional planning and development, a corporate lawyer specialising in mergers and
corporate, mergers and acquisitions, regulation acquisitions transactions. Before her current roles,
and risk management Kate held a number of senior positions including
Deputy Group General Counsel and General
Counsel for Group Legal.
Key
A Audit Committee member BR Board Risk Committee member
NG Nomination and Governance Committee Re Remuneration Committee member
member
RB Responsible Business Committee member Committee Chair
Lloyds Banking Group plc Annual Review 2024
47

--- PAGE 52 ---
Di i
Directors’ remuneration report
In a ddition to our co re r ew ard off erin g, w e al so h ave a ra nge o f
C
C
h
at
a
h
r
y Turner
flexib le opti o ns to p rov ide c olleag ues w i th ad ditiona l c h oice a nd to
Chair, all ow t hem to t ail or th eir r e ward packa ge t o their own or their
R mu
C
Re
o
mu
m
ne
tt
r
e
a
e
tion fa m ily ’s ind ivid u al circu ms tanc es. Collea gue s ca n also a ccess a r ange
Committee
of finan cial pr od u c ts at dis cou nted ra te s fr om t he Gr o u p por tfo li o;
these in clud e c u rre n t acc o unts, m ortg ages an d ren tal d ep osi t o r
seaso n t icke t l oan s. For m ore info rmation see pag e 117 o f t he a n nual
rep ort a nd accoun ts.
Inc en tivisin g o ur colle ag ues help s us to de li ver o n o ur s tra tegy an d
delive r for our custo m er s by, f or example, p rov id ing a r ange of
housing optio ns for our comm unities; amo ngs t a ran ge of actions,
we hav e in cr ea se d the nu m b er o f pe op le o n th e h ou s i ng ladd e r by
lending mo re t ha n £ 15 b ill ion in 2 024 t o fir st tim e bu ye r s a nd
Read full biography
exp andi n g the a vai l abi li ty of aff or dab le h om es b y supp or t ing ov er
£2 b illio n of n ew fu ndin g to th e so cial ho u sin g se ct or in 20 24.
i C i We also aim t o brin g m ore of ou r prod uc ts an d ser vices to exi s ting
C
R
h
em
i
u
’
n e
t
ra
t
tion Co
t
mmittee
cu stomer s a nd b roaden o u r p ro duct o ff erings. Ou r di git ally ac tive
Chair’s statement use rs gre w t o 2 2. 7 mi llion in 2 02 4 , reta ining ou r positi on as the UK’ s
larg est d igi ta l b ank a nd we l a unch ed new in ter a ctiv e to ols s uch as
Our two-year pay deal for 2024 and 2025 remains
Bene fit Ca lcu la tor , whic h em powe rs custom er s to identi fy s upp or t
ind str eadn ; betw Aprl 202 nd pr they m ight be eligi b le fo r.
industry leading; between April 2024 and April
2025 wi ave r vi inm m £30
p
20
ay
2 5
a
, we
rd
w ill h
r
a
t
v
h
e p r
o
ovid
l o
ed
f
a m
t
inimu m £
t
3, 0001 Gro up b ala nce d sc orecard
pay award, worth a total of between 8.2 to
The G roup bal anced s corecard (BSC) is intended to provide insight
136 p r ent of s a y fo lea s at into perf ormance for t he full range of our stakeholders and informs a
1 o 3.6 p r e g r a c d en s t of salary, for our colleagues at rang e of ke y reward d e cisions, i ncludin g for our ex ec utive dir ectors.
lower grades. 60 p er cen t of the sc o rec ard is linke d to fi nancial me tri cs, a li gned to
th e i nte res ts o f ou r sh are hold ers , 2 0 p er c ent of t he sco reca rd
a ssesse s h ow e ffe ctive ly we are serving c u sto m er s across al l our
brands, pr od u cts and se r v ice s , 7.5 per c e nt r ela t es t o ou r c u ltu re and
colleagu e enga gem ent a nd 12. 5 per cen t is w eig ht e d to c ar bo n
red uct ion and inclu sivit y .
Dear shareh old er
As disc u ssed in more d et ail o n page 5 o f t he a nn ua l r ep or t a nd
On beh alf of the B oard, I am plea sed to present the direc tor s’ accoun ts, o ur fina ncia l results for 2 024 inclu de an ad di tional
remune ration r eport f or t he year ended 31 December 20 24. We are pro visio n for th e p ote n tial r em ediat ion co sts relatin g to m oto r
grateful for the strong sup port received at the 2024 annu al g en eral fin ance co mm i ssion a rrange me nts ; t hi s ha s nega tiv ely imp act ed th e
meeting (AGM), with 96.4 per cent approval of our 2023 report. profit a f te r tax an d re turn on ta ng ible equity (Ro TE) m ea sure s in th e
Supp orting our customers,
f
B
u
S
ll
C
y i
r
n
e
c
s
l
u
u
l
s
t
i
i
v
n
e
g
o
i n
f
a
th
r
e
e d
i m
uc
p
e
a
d
c t
o
o
u
f
t t
t
u
h
r
e
n
p
o
r
f
o
6
vi
8
s i
.
o
12
n
p
.
e
M
r
o
c
r
e
e
n
i
t
n
o
f o
f
r
m
m
a
a
x
t
i
i
m
on
u m
o n
,
co lle agu e s a nd co m m unitie s in 202 4 our G ro u p BSC o utcome ca n b e f ou nd on pa ge 1 19 of th e a nnu al
We are pro ud of how we hav e con tinu ed to deliv er o n our pu rp o se o f repor t an d acc o u nts.
Helping Brit ain Prosp e r b y su pp or ting ou r c usto mers , collea g ues and As a co ns e quen ce of includin g t he o utcom e ab ove, the C omm it tee
our com mu nitie s thro u gho ut 2 024. does n ot consid er that the BSC outcome properly reflects the
In 2023 we anno unce d our two-year pay deal for 2024 and 2025 str en gth of the un de rly ing G ro u p p erform an ce or t h e pe rfo rma nce
which remains i ndust ry leading. In th e context of improving of th e ex e c utiv e d irecto rs w hos e variable rewa rd is di rectly link ed
economic cond itions and an easing of p ric e increases, we will have to it.
pro vide d a rea l-t erm p ay increa se for alm ost 55,000 co llea gues at Af ter c areful con sideratio n of the importa nce of t ra nsparen cy and
gra d es A to E i n 2 0 25. Ou r mi ni mum awa r d o f £1,50 01, m ea ns our to demonstrate the Group’s commitment to respecting the targets
c
4
o
. 4
ll e
a
a
n
g
d
u
6
es
.3
a
p
t
e
lo
r
w
ce
e
n
r
t
g
.
r ad es r e ceive d a n a v era ge inc rease of b etwe en i
d
t
i s
s
c
e
r
t
e
s
t
f
i
o
o
r
n
i t
t
s
h
e
is
lf
y
,
e
t h
a
e
r t
C
o
o
a
m
d
m
ju
i
s
t
t
t
t
e
h
e
e
h
B
a
S
s
C
d e
o
c
u
id
tc
e
o
d
m
n
e
o t
t o
t o
a
e
h
x
ig
e
h
rc
e
i
r
s e
le
i
v
t
e
s
l
Th at m e ans th at betwe en A pril 20 24 a nd Apri l 20 25, w e wi l l have w hich it c o nsid e rs w ou ld bet ter r efl ec t the u nd e rl y i ng perf o rm a nce.
provid ed a min imum £3 ,0 00 1 pa y a w a rd, wo rth a tota l of be tw een The Co m m itte e co nsi der s it crit ic al th a t it c an s et ro bu st f inanc ial
8.2 to 13. 6 per cent o f sal a ry, for o ur c o lleag u es at low e r gr ade s. target s w hich prov ide cle ar line of sight to d elivery aga inst its
F
£
R
r
2
e
o
3
a
m
,
l
5
L
0
1
i v
A
0
in
p
1 t
g
r
o
i l
W
2
£
a
0
2
g
5
2
e
,
5
0
;
w
o
0
u
0
e
r
1
w
L
w
o
il
h
l
n
i
a
d
c
l
h
s
o
o
n
w
b
r
i
a
l
e
l
t
b
i
e
n
e
s
c
9
w
r e
p
i
a
ll
e
s
b
r
in
e
c
g
e
1
o
3
n
.
u
t
9
r
a
p
m
b
e
o
i
r
n
v
c
i
e
m
e
t
n
u
h
t
m
e
a
n
s
b
a
a
o
t
l
v
a
io
e
r y
n
t
a
h
fr
l
e
o m a
b
20
m
ud
2
b
5
g
i
e
t
B
i
t
o
S
in
u
C
g
s
(
s
p
a
t
r
n
r
o
a
d
c
t
e
e
b
s
g
e
s
y
y
.
o
a
A
n
n
s
d
d
s u
i
a
f
c
l
r
i
h
g
e
,
n
q
f
u
o
w
i
r
r
i
e
t
t
h
h
d
e
)
t h
w
fi
e
n
e
f
a
w
i
n
n
i
a
c
ll
i
n
a
e
c
l
x
i
m
a
cl
l
u
e
p
a
d
la
s
e
u
n
t
r
n
h
e
i
e
s
n g
w
im
a
i t
p
n
h
a
d
in
c t
o
o
u
f
r
Lond on Rea l Livin g Wage. provis ions relat ed t o t h e m o tor fina nce ma tt er (as i t is n ot a
For 2 024 , w e ext ende d elig ibi lit y f or s ignif icantl y i ncre a se d G roup
budge ted item) an d the C ommi tte e w il l ins tead co n sid er a n y
Per for ma n c e S hare (G PS) ann ua l b on us p lan aw ar ds to t h ose of our
impact on a disc re tio nar y case- by-ca se b asis ta k in g a c cou n t o f the
mo re j u nio r co llea gu e s wh o h a ve ma de an e xcep ti onal co n tribut ion
impact on th e fu ll ra nge o f the Group ’s s t akeh old ers includ in g it s
to ou r p urpo se of Hel ping B rit ain P ros per .
custom ers , c ol leag ues, s ha reho lders an d com muniti e s. With th e
excepti on o f re lati ve To t al Sha rehold er R eturn (rTSR ), t he fin a nc i al
measures u se d to det e rmin e the fut ure v esting of our L ong T erm
Incentive P la n ( LT IP) award s, incl uding t he rema in ing t w o y e ars o f
our 2024 awar d , w ill be treat e d i n the s ame wa y.
1 Pro-rated for reduced hours.
2 In line wit h ou r cost gu idance, the BSC outcome includes a £0.1 billion adjustment to
th e Op erat ing C ost measure ta rge t rela ting to th e sector- w ide c hange in the charg ing
app roach for t he Ba nk of Eng land L evy whic h w as not included in the f in anci al
objective this me asure wa s set aga inst.
Lloyds Ba nking Gro up plc A nnual Revi ew 2024
48

--- PAGE 53 ---
2024 variable reward outcomes Executive directors’ 2025 pay
The Group delivered robust financial results in 2024 and successfully Aligned with its principle of ensuring all colleagues are rewarded
completed the first phase of our five-year purpose-driven strategy. fairly, an important area of focus for the Committee this year has
With that in mind, one of the key principles for the C ommittee this been reviewing the appropriateness of executive directors’ pay.
year has been the need to ensure colleague engagement and reward On appointment, the Committee set the base salary of the GCE
colleagues fairly for their contribution; this is reflected in the lower than his predecessor, by 13 per cent, to recognise that this
Committee’s decision making and the pay and variable reward was his first lead executive role in a listed environment. This is in line
outcomes discussed below. with good practice and investor preferences.
The Committee has considered a range of factors to determine the
The GCE made an immediate impact and, over the last three and a
2024 Group Performance Share (GPS) annual bonus pool outcome;
half years, has provided strong leadership of the Group, delivering
these include the Group’s underlying financial performance, its
progress against our ambitious strategic objectives and a series of
performance for our customers and communities and its reward
robust financial results in a challenging and uncertain economic
market positioning.
climate. Externally, he has raised the profile of the Group, to aid us
The Committee has approved a 2024 GPS pool of £368 million, in the delivery of our purpose of Helping Britain Prosper particularly
representing a year on year reduction of 4 per cent when compared in respect of the UK’s housing crisis. Since 2018 we have supported
to 2023. This acknowledges that, whilst our underlying results are around £20 billion of funding to the social housing sector.
robust and in line with our published guidance, underlying profit is
Given the GCE’s increased experience and strong track-record of
down year on year, which the Committee considered is important
delivery, the Committee has determined that it is an appropriate
to recognise in its GPS decision.
time to review his package. The most obvious inconsistency was his
In 2022, Long Term Share Plan (LTSP) a wards w ere g ranted t o fixed pay recognising that it has only increased modestly since he
approximately 750 colleagues including our executive directors. To was appointed – his fixed pay has risen by just 5 per cent over three
ensure that subsequent performance has been sustained a ‘pre-vest and a half years.
test’ consisting of three financial underpins and four key questions
The Committee also reviewed the fixed pay of the CFO. The
has been considered by the Committee. Based on the outcome of
Committee recognised the strong financial leadership throughout
that test the Committee has determined that the awards should
our transformation and the breadth of the role which includes
fully vest. More detail is provided on page 121 o f th e annual rep ort
responsibility for Lloyds Development Capital, Lloyds Living and
and accoun ts. The C ommi ttee a lso considere d w hethe r th ere was a
Housing Growth Partnership, all key enablers of our purpose of
requi rem ent to ad just for win dfall gains in resp ect o f th is award an d
Helping Britain Prosper.
de termined that no adjustment is necessary.
After careful consideration, including consultation with shareholders
Executive director remuneration outcomes (see next section), the Committee decided, effective 1 January 2025,
to reverse the impact of the discount applied to the GCE’s salary on
Charlie Nunn, our Group Chief Executive (GCE), has overseen the
appointment (13 per cent) and apply a 3 per cent annual increase
successful completion of the first phase of our strategy and
effective 1 April 2025 to the salary of both executive directors; the latter
delivered robust financial results in 2024. The GCE has embodied
is less than the 4.1 per cent pay budget which colleagues will benefit
the Group’s values and has led through a year of s ubstantial
from under our two-year pay deal. In line with our current Policy, the
transformation and external uncertainties whilst maintaining a
Fixed Share Award (FSA) of the GCE and CFO will be increased by
strong regulatory and risk environment.
£283,381 and £353,094 respectively to align with their salaries.
Our Chief Financial Officer (CFO) has had a critical role in strategy
As part of its decision, the Committee considered that, excluding the
development, communication and execution. He has embedded
exceptional salary increase in January 2025, the GCE’s salary will
strong commercial and investment discipline across the Group.
have increased by 8 per cent between his date of appointment and
The Committee determined that the GPS awards for the GCE and
April 2025; over the equivalent period, colleagues will have
CFO should be in line with the Group’s performance as assessed by
benefitted from a total pay budget of 18.2 per cent.
the Group BSC of 68.1 per cent of maximum, with resultant awards
In determining these changes, the Committee reviewed the relevant
of £1,126,633 and £812,014 respectively.
benchmarking data. This included comparing the on-target total
The 2024 Group BSC outcome also acts as part of a ‘pre-grant test’
reward opportunity of the Group’s executive directors with peers,
for the 2025 LTIP awards. Given our robust 2 024 p erformance, t he
including the FTSE 30 and our main UK banking peers. Due to
Committee has determined to grant LTIP awards to the GCE and
significant pay practice differences compared to the UK, US and
the CFO of 300 per cent of salary in line with the current Directors’
European firms were not included in the analysis.
Remuneration Policy (the Policy). The vesting o utcome o f t he L TIP
Changes in respect of the GCE improve the competitiveness of his
award will be subject to the achievement of stretching performance
total reward opportunity, but the package remains below the
targets measured over the period 2025 to 2027.
median of both our UK banking peer group and the FTSE 30.
The Committee assessed the performance measures and weightings
used in the 2024 grant and concluded they remain strongly aligned Group Chief Executive Charlie Nunn
to the Group’s strategic transformation and public financial and
environmental commitments. Therefore, they remain appropriate
for the 2025 grant. For more details see page 132 o f the annual
report and accounts.
As set ou t on p age 86 of th e annual re por t and a ccounts, in
con tinuing to conside r it s arrangem ents for enga gin g w ith the
Group ’s work forc e, the Board ap proved in 2024 an evolved
approac h to coll eagu e en gagement , to be implem en ted du ring
2025. This new approa ch builds on exis ting co lleagu e listening
activ ity a nd will intro duce th ree forums to bett er re presen t
colleagues pa rticular ly at grad es where trad e union m ember ship
is low. The fo rums w ill inclu de t he People F oru m, the P eo ple
Consultation F orum, and the Mana gement Advisory Forum.
Where appropriate, these forums will be engaged on matters
of remuneration, including executive remuneration.
Lloyds Ba nking Gro up plc A nnual Revi ew 2024
49

--- PAGE 54 ---
Directors’ remuneration report continued
The changes for our CFO will align his fixed pay and on-target Board Chair fee
opportunity with the market.
The Committee has also considered how the fee paid to the Board
Chair compares with the market. This was reduced, at his request,
Chief Financial Officer William Chalmers
on appointment by 20 per cent versus his predecessor.
Recognising investor expectations that non-executive director fees
properly recognise the time commitment, skills and experience
necessary to perform the role, the Committee decided, in line with
the Policy and with Sir Robin Budenberg not participating in the
discussion, to increase the Chair fee to a more market comparable
level of £850,000 in two steps over 2025 and 2026. In January 2025,
the Chair fee increased from £654,500 to £750,000.
Variable to fixed pay ratio for material risk takers
(MRTs)
Following the approval by the Group’s shareholders of a resolution
to allow the Committee to set an appropriate variable to fixed pay
ratio for its MRTs, it has approved a maximum ratio of 8:1 for 2024
and later years. The Committee considers that this will provide it
with sufficient flexibility in terms of variable reward design without
Shareholder consultation creating an incentive for excessive risk taking.
In 2024, I consulted with a range of shareholders and proxy rating
The variable opportunity for the executive directors will remain
agencies to discuss their views on executive pay and our thoughts
subject to the limits set out in the 2023 Policy and cannot be
on Policy implementation for 2025 and beyond. During this process
increased as a consequence of the increase in the ratio.
I spoke with our largest shareholders, representing around 25 per
cent of the Group’s issued share capital, as well as representative Dilution limits
bodies whose members make up a significant portion of our register.
As our GPS, somewhat unusually, operates across such a broad base
The feedback received was valuable and indicated broad of colleagues, (approximately 30,000 received shares in respect of
understanding amongst investors for both the 2025 modifications awards over £2,000 in 2024) it is more consistent with an all
and the longer-term trajectory for executive pay at the Group which employee, rather than an executive, share plan. Therefore the ‘inner’
is considered to be managed responsibly. Our shareholders clearly dilution limit is a particular challenge for the Group. To aid the
understood our rationale and need to pay the executive directors, operation of our share plans, we will be recommending a resolution
who are well respected amongst our investors, fairly for their roles in at the upcoming AGM to remove the 5 per cent ‘inner’ dilution limit
the short term as well as over the long term. for our discretionary share schemes. We will maintain the ‘outer’
dilution limit of 10 per cent for all our share plans.
One area of particular discussion was the timing of fixed pay
increases given the opportunity the Group now has to set its own This change aligns with the recent updates to the Investment
variable to fixed pay ratio. Associations Principles of Remuneration and certain proxy rating
agencies guidance and will provide the Group with more flexibility in
The Committee considered the variable to fixed pay ratio feedback
terms of how it administers colleague share awards in its overall
carefully and determined to take a two-step approach. To ensure
capital management.
the executive directors are paid fairly ahead of the 2026 Policy
review, the fixed pay changes set out above would be implemented. Together with my Committee members, I would like to thank our
Fixed pay will be reconsidered as part of the 2026 Policy review shareholders for their ongoing support and our colleagues for their
where it is anticipated that, consistent with anticipated market continued commitment to our customers and our communities.
movements, the FSA element will be significantly reduced and a
On behalf of the Board
higher, performance-related, variable reward opportunity will be
recommended to shareholders as part of the new Policy presented
to the 2026 AGM.
I would like to thank our shareholders and advisory bodies for their
engagement and the feedback received as part of our consultation;
your support is important and I look forward to engaging with
Cathy Turner
shareholders again as we develop our 2026 Policy over the
Chair, Remuneration Committee
coming year.
Lloyds Ba nking Gro up plc A nnual Revi ew 2024
50

--- PAGE 55 ---
Executive director single total figure of remuneration (audited)
Charlie Nunn William Chalmers Totals
£000 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023
Base salary 1,170 1,136 844 819 2,014 1,955
Fixed Share Award1 1,082 1,050 519 504 1,601 1,554
Benefits 52 48 63 62 115 110
Pension 176 170 127 123 303 293
Total fixed pay 2,480 2,404 1,553 1,508 4,033 3,912
Group Performance Share2 1,127 1,277 812 921 1,939 2,198
Long-term Incentive3,4,5 2,008 – 1,448 749 3,456 749
Total variable pay 3,135 1,277 2,260 1,670 5,395 2,947
Other remuneration6 – – – 1 – 1
Total remuneration 5,615 3,681 3,813 3,179 9,428 6,860
Less: Performance adjustment – – – – – –
Total remuneration less performance adjustment 5,615 3,681 3,813 3,179 9,428 6,860
1 The Fixed Share Award is part of f ixed r emuneration a nd i s n ot s ubject t o a ny p erformance c onditions ( see p age 1 15 of the annual report and accounts).
2 Awards for Charlie Nunn and William Chalmers will b e m ade i n M arch 2 025 i n a c ombination o f c ash a nd s hares.
3 The 2022 Long Term Share Plan ( LTSP) v esting ( see p age 1 21 o f th e an nua l rep ort a nd account s) a t 10 0 per cent was confirmed b y the Remune rat ion Commit tee at its m eetin g on
13 Februa ry 2025 . Th e to tal numbe r of shares v esting will be 3,588,3 64 for Cha rlie Nunn a nd 2 ,586,292 for W illiam Chalmer s . The aver age sh are pr ice betwee n 1 Oc tob er 202 4 and
31 D ecem ber 2 02 4 of 55.9 69 p ence h as b een us ed to indicate t he value . The s har e s were awar de d in 202 2 base d on a share pr ice o f 47. 02 7 pe nce and a s such 1 9 per cent of th e repo rted
value is attributable to share price appreciation.
4 The long-term incentive figures for 2023 have been a djusted t o r eflect t he s hare p rice o n t he d ate o f v esting ( 6 M arch 2 024) o f 4 8.4 p ence in stead o f th e av erage p rice of 43 .564 pe nce
reported in the 2023 report.
5 The 2021 LTSP awards were granted prior t o C harlie N unn j oining a s G roup C hief E xecutive f rom 1 6 A ugust 2 021.
6 Other remuneration payments comprise income from all employee share plans, w hich a rises t hrough e mployer m atching o r d iscounting o f e mployee p urchases.
Single total fig ure of remun eration for Chair and non-executive directors (audited)
Fees (£000) Benefits (£000)4 Total (£000)
2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023
Chair and non–executive directors
Sir Robin Budenberg 655 629 1 2 656 631
Nathan Bostock1 140 – – – 140 –
Alan Dickinson2 112 402 4 3 116 405
Sarah Legg 232 228 13 5 245 233
Lord Lupton3 112 286 2 6 114 292
Amanda Mackenzie 219 179 3 1 222 180
H armeen Mehta 106 1 02 5 1 111 103
Cathy Turner 277 157 2 – 279 157
Scott Wheway 475 458 17 25 492 483
Cathe rine Wo ods5 250 246 (9) 23 241 269
1 Nathan Bostock was appointed on 1 August 2024.
2 Alan Dickinson reti red on 16 May 202 4.
3 Lord Lupton retired on 16 May 2024.
4 Benefits for the non-executive directors relates to reimbursement for expenses incurred in the course of duties. The Chair’s benefits also include private medical insurance, including a
one-off settlement of tax in 2023 relating to the restatement in the 2022 annual report. Non-executive directors do not receive variable pay.
5 The value o f be nefits in respec t of 202 4 in cludes the correctio n o f previous tax treatment from 2023. Excluding the correction, the benefits figure for 2024 is £7,047. The figure on a
revised basis for 2023 is £6,548.
Lloyds Ba nking Gro up plc A nnual Revi ew 2024
51

--- PAGE 56 ---
Income statement – underlying basisA
2024 2023 Change
£m £m %
Underlying net interest income 12,845 13,765 (7)
Underlying other income 5,597 5,123 9
Operating lease depreciation (1,325) (956) (39)
Net income 17,117 17,932 (5)
Operating costs (9,442) (9,140) (3)
Remediation (899) (675) (33)
Total costs (10,341) (9,815) (5)
Underlying profit before impairment 6,776 8,117 (17)
Underlying impairment charge (433) (308) (41)
Underlying profit 6,343 7,809 (19)
Restructuring (40) (154) 74
Market volatility and asset sales (144) 35
Amortisation of purchased intangibles (81) (80) (1)
Fair value unwind (107) (107)
Volatility and other items (332) (152)
Statutory profit before tax 5,971 7,503 (20)
Tax expense (1,494) (1,985) 25
Statutory profit after tax 4,477 5,518 (19)
Earnings per share 6.3p 7.6p (1.3) p
Dividends per share – ordinary 3.17p 2.76p 15
Share buyback value £1.7bn £2.0bn (15)
Banking net interest marginA 2.95% 3.11% (16)bp
Average interest-earning banking assetsA £451.2bn £453.3bn
Cost:income ratioA 60.4% 54.7% 5.7 pp
Asset quality ratioA 0.10% 0.07 % 3bp
Return on tangible equityA 12.3% 15.8% (3.5) pp
A Seee page 314 of the annual report and accounts.
Key balance sheet metrics
At 31 Dec At 31 Dec Change
2024 2023 %
Underlying loans and advances to customersA £459.1bn £449.7bn 2
Customer deposits £482.7bn £471.4bn 2
Loan to deposit ratioA 95% 95%
CET1 ratio 14.2% 14.6% (0.4) pp
Pro forma CET1 ratioA,1 13.5% 13.7% (0.2) pp
UK leverage ratio 5.5% 5.8% (0.3) pp
Risk-weighted assets £224.6bn £219.1bn 3
Wholesale funding2 £92.5bn £98.7bn (6)
Wholesale funding <1 year maturity2 £31.3bn £35.1bn (11)
of which: money market funding <1 year maturity2 £16.9bn £23.8bn (29)
Liquidity coverage ratio – eligible assets3 £134.4bn £136.0bn (1)
Liquidity coverage ratio4 146% 142% 4 pp
Net stable funding ratio5 129% 130% (1) pp
Tangible net assets per shareA 52.4p 50.8p 1.6p
1 31 December 2023 and 31 December 2024 reflect both the full impact of the share buybacks announced in respect of 2023 and 2024 and the ordinary dividends received from the
Insurance business in February 2024 and February 2025.
2 Excludes balances relating to margins of £2.8 billion (31 December 2023: £2.4 billion).
3 Eligible assets are calculated as a monthly rolling simple average of month end observations over the previous 12 months post any liquidity haircuts.
4 The liquidity coverage ratio is calculated as a simple average of month-end observations over the previous 12 months.
5 The net stable funding ratio is calculated as a simple average of month-end observations over the previous four quarter-ends.
Lloyds Ba nking Gro up plc A nnual Revi ew 2024
52

--- PAGE 57 ---
Balance sheet analysis
At 31 Dec At 30 Sep At 30 Jun At 31 Dec
2024 2024 Change 2024 Change 2023 Change
£bn £bn % £bn % £bn %
UK mortgages1,2 312.3 310.1 1 306.9 2 306.2 2
Credit cards 15.7 15.7 15.6 1 15.1 4
UK Retail unsecured loans 9.1 8.8 3 8.2 11 6.9 32
UK Motor Finance3 15.3 15.6 (2) 16.2 (6) 15.3
Overdrafts 1.2 1.1 9 1.0 20 1.1 9
Retail other1,4 17.9 17.3 3 17.2 4 16.6 8
Business and Commercial Banking5 29.7 30.7 (3) 31.5 (6) 33.0 (10)
Corporate and Institutional Banking 57.9 57.2 1 56.6 2 55.6 4
Central Items6 – 0.5 (0.8) (0.1)
Underlying loans and advances to customersA 459.1 457.0 452.4 1 449.7 2
Retail current accounts 101.3 100.6 1 101.7 102.7 (1)
Retail savings accounts7 208.2 204.3 2 201.5 3 194.8 7
Wealth 10.2 10.1 1 10.1 1 10.9 (6)
Commercial Banking 162.6 160.7 1 161.2 1 162.8
Central Items 0.4 – 0.2 0.2
Customer deposits 482.7 475.7 1 474.7 2 471.4 2
Total assets 906.7 900.8 1 892.9 2 881.5 3
Total liabilities 860.8 854.4 1 847.8 2 834.1 3
Ordinary shareholders’ equity 39.5 40.3 (2) 39.0 1 40.3 (2)
Other equity instruments 6.2 5.9 5 5.9 5 6.9 (10)
Non-controlling interests 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2
Total equity 45.9 46.4 (1) 45.1 2 47.4 (3)
Ordinary shares in issue, excluding own shares 60,491m 61,419m (2) 62,458m (3) 63,508m (5)
1 From the first quarter of 2024, open mortgage book and closed mortgage book loans and advances, previously presented separately, are reported together as UK mortgages; Wealth
loans and advances, previously reported separately, are included within Retail other. The 31 December 2023 comparative is presented on a consistent basis.
2 The increases between 31 December 2023 and 30 June 2024 and between 30 September 2024 and 31 December 2024 are net of the impact of the securitisations of primarily legacy
Retail mortgages of £0.9 billion and £1.0 billion respectively.
3 UK Motor Finance balances on an underlying basisA exclude a finance lease gross up. Seee page 314 of the annual report and accounts.
4 Within underlying loans and advances, Retail other includes the European and Wealth businesses.
5 Previously named Small and Medium Businesses.
6 Central Items includes central fair value hedge accounting adjustments.
7 From the first quarter of 2024, Retail relationship savings accounts and Retail tactical savings accounts, previously reported separately, are reported together as Retail savings
accounts. The 31 December 2023 comparative is presented on a consistent basis.
Report of the Auditor
The auditors’ report on the full accounts for the year ended 31 December 2024 was unqualified, and their statement under section 496
(whether the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report are consistent with the accounts) of the Companies Act 2006 was unqualified.
Lloyds Ba nking Gro up plc A nnual Revi ew 2024
53

--- PAGE 58 ---
Forward-looking statements
This document contains certain forward-looking statements within regulatory capital or liquidity requirements and similar
the meaning of Section 21E of the US Securities Exchange Act of contingencies; the policies and actions of governmental or
1934, as amended, and section 27A of the US Securities Act of 1933, regulatory authorities or courts together with any resulting impact
as amended, with respect to the business, strategy, plans and/or on the future structure of the Group; risks associated with the
results of Lloyds Banking Group plc together with its subsidiaries Group’s compliance with a wide range of laws and regulations;
(the Group) and its current goals and expectations. Statements that assessment related to resolution planning requirements; risks
are not historical or current facts, including statements about the related to regulatory actions which may be taken in the event of a
Group’s or its directors’ and/or management’s beliefs and bank or Group failure; exposure to legal, regulatory or competition
expectations, are forward-looking statements. Words such as, proceedings, investigations or complaints; failure to comply with
without limitation, ‘believes’, ‘achieves’, ‘anticipates’, ‘estimates’, anti-money laundering, counter terrorist financing, anti-bribery and
‘expects’, ‘targets’, ‘should’, ‘intends’, ‘aims’, ‘projects’, ‘plans’, sanctions regulations; failure to prevent or detect any illegal or
‘potential’, ‘will’, ‘would’, ‘could’, ‘considered’, ‘likely’, ‘may’, ‘seek’, improper activities; operational risks including risks as a result of the
‘estimate’, ‘probability’, ‘goal’, ‘objective’, ‘deliver’, ‘endeavour’, failure of third party suppliers; conduct risk; technological changes
‘prospects’, ‘optimistic’ and similar expressions or variations on and risks to the security of IT and operational infrastructure,
these expressions are intended to identify forward-looking systems, data and information resulting from increased threat of
statements. These statements concern or may affect future cyber and other attacks; technological failure; inadequate or failed
matters, including but not limited to: projections or expectations of internal or external processes or systems; risks relating to ESG
the Group’s future financial position, including profit attributable to matters, such as climate change (and achieving climate change
shareholders, provisions, economic profit, dividends, capital ambitions) and decarbonisation, including the Group’s ability along
structure, portfolios, net interest margin, capital ratios, liquidity, with the government and other stakeholders to measure, manage
risk-weighted assets (RWAs), expenditures or any other financial and mitigate the impacts of climate change effectively, and human
items or ratios; litigation, regulatory and governmental rights issues; the impact of competitive conditions; failure to
investigations; the Group’s future financial performance; the level attract, retain and develop high calibre talent; the ability to achieve
and extent of future impairments and write-downs; the Group’s strategic objectives; the ability to derive cost savings and other
ESG targets and/or commitments; statements of plans, objectives benefits including, but without limitation, as a result of any
or goals of the Group or its management and other statements that acquisitions, disposals and other strategic transactions; inability to
are not historical fact and statements of assumptions underlying capture accurately the expected value from acquisitions;
such statements. By their nature, forward-looking statements assumptions and estimates that form the basis of the Group’s
involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and financial statements; and potential changes in dividend policy. A
depend upon circumstances that will or may occur in the future. number of these influences and factors are beyond the Group’s
Factors that could cause actual business, strategy, targets, plans control. Please refer to the latest Annual Report on Form 20-F filed
and/or results (including but not limited to the payment of by Lloyds Banking Group plc with the US Securities and Exchange
dividends) to differ materially from forward-looking statements Commission (the SEC), which is available on the SEC’s website at
include, but are not limited to: general economic and business www.sec.gov, for a discussion of certain factors and risks. Lloyds
conditions in the UK and internationally (including in relation to Banking Group plc may also make or disclose written and/or oral
tariffs); acts of hostility or terrorism and responses to those acts, or forward-looking statements in other written materials and in oral
other such events; geopolitical unpredictability; the war between statements made by the directors, officers or employees of Lloyds
Russia and Ukraine; the conflicts in the Middle East; the tensions Banking Group plc to third parties, including financial analysts.
between China and Taiwan; political instability including as a result Except as required by any applicable law or regulation, the forward-
of any UK general election; market related risks, trends and looking statements contained in this document are made as of
developments; changes in client and consumer behaviour and today’s date, and the Group expressly disclaims any obligation or
demand; exposure to counterparty risk; the ability to access undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any
sufficient sources of capital, liquidity and funding when required; forward-looking statements contained in this document whether as
changes to the Group’s credit ratings; fluctuations in interest rates, a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The
inflation, exchange rates, stock markets and currencies; volatility in information, statements and opinions contained in this document
credit markets; volatility in the price of the Group’s securities; do not constitute a public offer under any applicable law or an offer
natural pandemic and other disasters; risks concerning borrower to sell any securities or financial instruments or any advice or
and counterparty credit quality; risks affecting insurance business recommendation with respect to such securities or financial
and defined benefit pension schemes; changes in laws, regulations, instruments.
practices and accounting standards or taxation; changes to
This report is printed on Amadeus Silk paper and board, Forest Stewardship Council® (FSC®) certified and sourced from well managed
forests and other controlled sources. The paper is Elemental Chlorine Free (ECF). The manufacturing mill holds ISO14001 (EMAS) and
EU Ecolabel certificated for environmental management. The paper is carbon balanced with the World Land Trust, an international
conservation charity, who offset carbon emissions through the preservation of high conservation land. The inks used are vegetable oil based
and 100 per cent of the dry waste created during manufacturing is diverted from landfill.
Printed in the UK by Pureprint Group, CarbonNeutral®, ISO 14001 and FSC® certified.
Lloyds Ba nking Gro up plc A nnual Revi ew 2024
54

--- PAGE 59 ---


--- PAGE 60 ---
Head office
25 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7HN
+44 (0)20 7626 1500
www.lloydsbankinggroup.com
Registered office
The Mound, Edinburgh EH1 1YZ
Registered in Scotland no. SC095000