
--- PAGE 1 ---
Value. Quality. Service.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements
2 25.

--- PAGE 2 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information
Value creation at Tesco
At Tesco, we pride ourselves
on our commitment to deliver
for our customers.
We focus on doing the
basics brilliantly and
leading on the things
that truly matter to
customers, including...

--- PAGE 3 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 1.
…Value.
We want to make sure that our customers are getting the best products at the best
prices every day at Tesco, whether they’re shopping for potatoes, shirts or phone deals.
We continued to invest in lowering prices this year through our combination of Aldi Price
Match, Low Everyday Prices and Clubcard Prices.
Sa e.
Up to Added an average of More than
£392* c.650 800
annual savings per customer products per market to our Low prices locked for Booker catering customers
with Clubcard Prices Price Guarantee in Central Europe between October 2024 and January 2025
* Clubcard Prices saving of up to £392 is based on the top 25% of Tesco Clubcard members and large store sales between 6 January 2024 and 4 January 2025. Tesco Clubcard Price saving versus regular Tesco price.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 4 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 2.
…Quality.
We take care of the quality of our products from the very start of the supply chain, with our
farmers and growers, through manufacturing and packaging, to the presentation in our stores.
Thanks to a strong focus on product quality across our range, our quality perception has
improved 153 bps this year.
F esh.
1 ,000 1 5% 600 £2.5bn
new products launched increase in Tesco Finest products improved annual sales of Finest
sales in the UK
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 5 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 3.
…Service.
It is our mission to be easily the most convenient retailer. That means making sure
that products are available when customers want them, that our stores are easy
to shop and that our app offers everything they need in one place.
24 7.
Grocer 33 1,500 18m
Award for availability 2024 stores offering Whoosh, for Tesco app users
delivery in as little as 20 minutes
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 6 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial Statements Additional information 4.
Hello.
Strategic report Financial statements
Value creation at Tesco 1 Independent auditor’s report 124
Contents 4 Group income statement 135
Highlights of the year 5 Group statement of comprehensive 136
Tesco at a glance 6 income/(loss)
Chair’s statement 8 Group balance sheet 137
Our purpose framework 10 Group statement of changes in equity 138
Group Chief Executive’s review 11 Group cash flow statement 140
UK market context 14 Notes to the Group financial statements 141
Our strategic priorities 16 Tesco PLC – Parent Company balance sheet 212
Our business model 18 Tesco PLC – Parent Company statement 213
Key performance indicators 19 of changes in equity
Welcome to our Stakeholder engagement 20 Notes to the Parent Company 214
financial statements
Everyone’s welcome 23
Annual Report 2025. Related undertakings of the Tesco Group 220
Financial review 24
Planet 31 Additional information
Tesco was built to be a champion for customers, serving TCFD (including content finder index) 36 Supplementary information (unaudited) 226
Principal risks and uncertainties 40 Glossary – Alternative 228
them every day with affordable, healthy and sustainable food. (including TCFD risks and opportunities) performance measures
Our commitment to our customers extends beyond our Longer term viability statement 50 Five-year record 236
stores, and into every community we serve – in the UK, Governance Directors’ report 237
NFSIS 241
Republic of Ireland (ROI), Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Governance overview 52
Additional information for shareholders 242
Hungary. We invest in communities to help them thrive, Governance introduction 54
Board of Directors 56
through supporting schools and children’s groups, food
Governance framework 61
banks and other good causes.
Nominations and Governance Committee 72
Sustainability Committee 76
Our purpose guides every part of the Group. Serving our Audit Committee 80
Directors’ remuneration report 90
customers, communities and planet a little better every day
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 123
is what we do.
For integrated content in this report and further reading, please click on the links below:
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
TCFD content has been integrated across the Annual Report and can
be found using the index on page 36 and wherever you see this icon: T
A responsible business
Download our Sustainability report: tescoplc.com/sustainabilityreport2025
Our people
People content has been integrated across the Annual Report.
Further reading
Please visit our website: tescoplc.com/investors
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 7 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 5.
Highlights of the year
2 24/25...
Performance highlights Statutory measures (on a continuing operations basis)
Group salesΔ(a) UK market share (sales value)(e) Net debtΔ(c) Revenue Operating profit
£63.6bn 28.3% £(9,454)m £69.9bn £2,711m
3.5% +67bps 2.4% 2.5% (3.9)%
(2024: £61.5bn) (2024: 27.6%) (2024: £(9,684)m) (2024: £68.2bn) (2024: £2,821m)
Adjusted operating profitΔ(b) Adjusted diluted EPSΔ(b) Group net promoter score(f) Profit before tax Statutory diluted EPS
£3,128m 27.38p 28pts £2,215m 23.13p
10.6% 17.0% 9pts (3.2)% (5.7)%
(2024: £2,829m) (2024: 23.41p) (2024: 19pts) (2024: £2,289m) (2024: 24.53p)
Dividend per share Free cash flowΔ(d)
1 3.70p £1,750m
13.2% (15.2)%
(2024: 12.10p) (2024: £2,063m)
The performance of the Banking operations has been presented as a discontinued operation to the date of disposal. The Insurance and Money Services business has been presented on a continuing basis
and therefore within headline performance measures. Further details on discontinued operations can be found in Note 8.
Δ Alternative performance measures (APMs) – the Group has defined and outlined the purpose of its APMs in the Glossary starting on page 228.
(a) Group sales exclude VAT and fuel.
(b) A djusted operating profit and Adjusted diluted EPS exclude the impact of adjusting items. Refer to Note 5 on page 151.
(c) Net debt now includes Insurance and Money Service, with the prior year reported on a consistent basis. The impact of the prior year is to reduce Net debt by £80m. Further information on Net debt can be found in Note 32 on page 209.
(d) Free cash flow is an APM defined and outlined in the Glossary starting on page 228. See the Glossary starting on page 228 for details of changes to APMs.
(e) U K market share based on Kantar Grocers Total Till Roll on a 12-week basis ending 23 February 2025.
(f) B asis – Tesco Global Brand tracker on a three-month rolling basis.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 8 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 6.
Tesco at a glance
Who we are.
Our purpose
Our
businesses
W e are
Tesco Mobile
has grown into an Tesco is a leading
award-winning multinational grocery
network serving retailer, available in
Tesco. more than 5.5m five markets
customers Serving our
customers,
Our
We are Tesco, a
Tesco Insurance communities
multinational grocery Serv a i n c d e s M p o r n o e v y id es customers a d g u l n o n b h a u l l m ea b d y e is r
retailer, with its ins m u o ra n n e c y, e A , T tr M a s v e l are always d in a t c a u s s c to ie m n e c r e and planet
headquarters in the and gift cards at the core a little better
United Kingdom.
every day.
We serve millions of Booker is
One Stop the UK’s leading
customers every week, is a retail food and drink
convenience wholesaler, serving
in stores and online, and business with thousands of retail
more than and catering
provide additional services 1,000 shops customers
across the Tesco family.
Our purpose
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 9 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 7.
Tesco at a glance continued
Where we operate
The value our businesses bring to customers and the Group
4,572
Stores globally
Tesco is a leading multinational grocery retailer, which aims to serve One Stop is a retail convenience business with more than 1,000
customers affordable, healthy and sustainable food. We have a relentless shops across the UK. The focus this year has been to provide 3,829
focus on value and quality across large stores, convenience and online. customers in local communities with quality products and
services at great prices.
Stores in the United Kingdom
www.tesco.com www.onestop.co.uk
1 82
Stores in the Republic
of Ireland
Booker is the UK’s leading food and drink wholesaler, delivering great Tesco Mobile is the UK’s largest mobile virtual network operator,
1 84
choice, price and service to a wide range of customers – including serving more than 5.5 million UK customers. Established in 2003
caterers, independent retailers and other businesses. Booker also as a joint venture between Tesco and O2, it has grown into
owns symbol brands including Budgens, Londis and Premier. an award-winning network with more than 500 phone shops. Stores in the Czech Republic
This year, the focus has been on unlocking the power of Clubcard
to deliver unique value and service for customers.
1 79
www.booker.co.uk www.tescomobile.com
Stores in Slovakia
1 98
dunnhumby is a global leader in customer data science. It works with Tesco Insurance and Money Services helps more than 2 million
brands, grocery retail, retail pharmacy and retail financial services customers protect what matters to them across home, travel, Stores in Hungary
to provide technology, software and consultancy services. Its insights pet and car insurance. It is the second largest provider of travel
help retailers and brands to truly put the customer first, through money and has the third largest ATM network in the UK, with more
engaging experiences which enhance loyalty and growth. than 3,400 ATMs in over 3,000 Tesco and One Stop stores. Its gift
card offering is the largest in the UK retail market.
www.dunnhumby.com www.tescoinsurance.com and www.tescotravelmoney.com
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 10 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 8.
Chair’s statement
Deli er. I reflect on another strong year for Tesco and In the UK, Tesco was the cheapest full-line
I would like to start by thanking all colleagues grocer throughout the year, while in Ireland we
across the Group. saw volume growth in every quarter this year
and in Central Europe we have continued to
Every time I go around Tesco, in our stores,
cut prices in each of our markets.
distribution centres, offices and across all of
our markets, I see consistent and enthusiastic We have continued to invest in our colleagues,
dedication to our simple and shared purpose with further significant increases in hourly pay
of serving our customers, communities and the and other benefits, recognising the essential
planet a little better every day. role that our colleagues play in supporting our
As we build for the future, Tesco continues customers and communities, and in helping
There is never a straightforward year in retail.
Tesco succeed. I’m proud that Tesco continues
to deliver for all stakeholders. As ever, we have had to navigate external events,
to be a fantastic place to get on and build an
geopolitical influences and changing consumer
exciting and rewarding career.
trends, but we have always tried to stay
connected to our stakeholders and do Supporting our communities remains central to
what is right for them. our business, and to our purpose. This year, our
Stronger Starts programme made a real impact
In focusing on all of our stakeholders, the Tesco
for children across the UK with its Fruit & Veg for
team has delivered higher customer satisfaction,
Schools initiative, which has so far supported
increased market share in the UK and Ireland and
400 schools with more than 5 million portions
a strong trading and financial performance from
of fruit. For further detail, see pages 11 and
the Group.
12. We’ve also supported hundreds of young
It’s thanks to those efforts that today Tesco is people from some of the UK’s most deprived
a stronger business than ever, fit for the future areas to start their careers thanks to our
and with gathering strategic momentum. Stronger Starts apprenticeships.
Every Little Helps
While inflation eased over the year, value
remains the biggest influence when it comes
to customers’ shopping choices, and it is
Gerry Murphy,
essential that we retain our relentless
Chair commitment to price and quality.
The team has achieved higher customer satisfaction,
increased market share and a strong financial
performance. When we prioritise our customer
offer, we deliver for all our stakeholders.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 11 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 9.
Chair’s statement continued
I’m also proud that we have doubled down on and services. This partnership combines Tesco’s Tesco is a vibrant business, full of energy, ideas
our drive towards net zero, for example with market-leading retail proposition, physical and and creativity. Innovation has always been in Did you know:
progress in harnessing solar energy for the digital reach with Barclays’ deep financial Tesco’s DNA – including the launch of Clubcard
future and moving freight from road to more services capabilities. as a globally groundbreaking loyalty programme
sustainable rail in the UK. We have also worked 30 years ago. On a daily basis, I see that restless The UK and ROI,
Board changes
hard to support our farmers and suppliers. In spirit as strong as ever with our growing retail
saw like-for-like
January, we relaunched the Tesco sustainable In February, we welcomed Chris Kennedy to the media business and our ever more personalised
farming group to support British pig farmers. Board as a Non-executive Director. As the Chief Clubcard offer as great examples of commercial volume growth in
Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer at and strategic innovation.
Strong financial performance ITV, Chris brings a wealth of knowledge in financial every quarter of
Tesco never stands still and will always look
Our investments over the last four years have management, strategic planning and corporate
for new ways to do the best we can for our the year.
resulted in the most competitive position and governance, and will be a real asset to the Board.
customers, communities and planet. It’s why
highest market share we have had for many He is a member of the Audit Committee and the
we come to work.
years, with strong finances and positive trading Nominations and Governance Committee.
momentum. Business growth and efficient use
Looking ahead
of our resources have resulted in another strong
financial performance during 2024/25. Group In addition to inflationary cost pressures from
adjusted operating profit rose 10.9%, driven government decisions affecting employment Gerry Murphy
by further progress in our core retail markets costs and environmental regulations, we are Chair
and a further contribution from our save to seeing even stronger competitive activity in our 9 April 2025
invest programme. key UK grocery market. We are committed, as
always, to ensuring that Tesco customers get the
We have delivered well against the multi-year
best value in the market without compromising
performance framework we set out in 2021,
on quality and we will always act to protect and
leading to strong cash generation and
strengthen our competitive position.
shareholder returns.
Tesco has weathered a number of turbulent
Tesco Bank update periods in recent years. Through all of that, it
In November 2024, we completed the sale of our has emerged a stronger, more robust business.
Banking operations to Barclays, while retaining I am confident, thanks to the dedication of our
our insurance business, ATMs, travel money colleagues and expertise of our leaders, that
and gift cards which will trade under the Tesco it will do so again in the year ahead.
Insurance and Money Services brand. We also
launched a new long-term strategic partnership
with Barclays to provide our customers access
to a range of Tesco-branded financial products

--- PAGE 12 ---
Strategic report GGoovveerrnnaannccee FFiinnaanncciiaall Ssttaatteemmeennttss AAddddiittiioonnaall iinnffoorrmmaattiioonn 10.
Our purpose framework
What we
stand for.
Our values put our purpose into practice:
Our three values underpin our purpose, setting out how we work together
as a team and guiding the decisions and choices we make across the Group.
Our core purpose is:
Serving our customers,
communities and planet 1. 2. 3.
No one tries We treat people Every little help
a little better every day.
harder for how they want makes a big
customers to be treated difference
Serving our customers, communities and planet a little better every day
means we always keep customers at the heart of what we do, while also
reflecting our responsibilities to the communities we serve and to society
Understanding people – Here, there is an opportunity Every little help makes a big
more broadly.
customers, colleagues, for all; everyone is heard, difference – it’s the value we
communities – and what valued, supported, and live by to ensure we serve our
Customers matters to them, and then empowered to be their best. customers, colleagues and
Everything we do begins and ends with our customers. By understanding trying to make those things By respecting each other and their communities a little
our customers, we can anticipate and respond to their needs better, is at the heart of Tesco. working together, we can make better every day.
and expectations. It’s about listening to people and Tesco great for our colleagues It really captures how, when we
As a Group we serve a wide range of different customers, in different talking to them using all the tools and customers. add up all the small things we do,
settings, from retail customers to customers of our insurance, mobile and at our disposal – from Clubcard Tesco can make a big difference
wholesale businesses, as well as dunnhumby’s retailer and supplier clients. data to social media – and to the issues customers,
then acting by changing and colleagues, communities and
innovating to meet their needs. wider society care about.
Communities
The role we play in the thousands of communities we serve is vital –
whether it’s creating good jobs, supporting local suppliers and
Since we first introduced our Tesco Values more than a decade ago, they have become a vital part of our
producers, or helping local causes through our community programmes.
culture – and an essential underpinning of our growth and success. They ensure that every person at
Tesco understands what is important – how we work together as a team and how customers are at the
Planet centre of what we do. They are universal values, which have helped guide our people as Tesco has grown.
Our commitment to sustainability is core to our business. It drives
our work across our own operations and our supply chain to reduce
our environmental impact and support a healthier way of living.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 13 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 11.
Group Chief Executive’s review
F cus. Today, Tesco is a business delivering strong At Christmas, Finest played a pivotal role, with
financial performance, with a robust balance more than 300 Finest festive products brought
sheet and positive momentum. We’ve continued into stores in the UK, including our expanded
to invest in value, quality and service – and our Finest Chef’s Collection range.
customers have responded. Market share has
In Central Europe, we saw customers respond
reached its highest level since 2016 and we’re
to our investment in quality as we introduced
winning share across the market. By investing in
further Finest products to the market.
the fundamental building blocks that underpin
a successful retailer, we’re a stronger business Overall, quality perception is up 153bps
than ever. year-on-year, growing ahead of the market.
We’ve invested across all of our ranges, but
Strong performance allows us to invest I would like to thank all of my Tesco colleagues
Finest in particular has had a remarkable year
for all of our stakeholders. for their efforts in delivering another strong – you can see why on page 13.
performance. The success of our business is
down to the dedication of our colleagues, who Investing in our colleagues
work to deliver for our customers, communities
Our colleagues are our greatest asset and our
and planet a little better every day.
performance would not be possible without
A continued focus on value… their relentless focus on brilliant service for our
customers every day. Over the past year, we
Value continues to be a central focus over the
invested in our largest-ever increase in store
past year. Our compelling value offer of Aldi Price
colleague pay and improved parental and
Match, Low Everyday Prices and Clubcard Prices
wellbeing offerings. We’ve also invested
continues to resonate strongly with customers
additional hours in store, helping us deliver
in the UK.
market-leading availability. All of this culminated
Right across the Group, we’re focusing on in standout colleague satisfaction results and
supporting our customers. At Booker we have Tesco being named the Employer of the Year
locked the price of more than 700 catering (Retailer) at the Grocer Gold Awards 2024.
products until June 2025.
We are investing another £180m in colleague pay
At Tesco Mobile, until 2026, customers can this year and have invested more than £900m
Ken Murphy, tap into their UK allowance at no extra cost in pay increases since April 2022.
in 48 destinations across the EU and beyond.
Group Chief Executive Supporting our local communities
…and on quality We take great pride in serving our local
We’ve also invested heavily in the quality of communities and making a real difference to
our products. Finest goes from strength to those who need it most. Stronger Starts, our
strength, recording a 15% increase in UK grant programme to help children have a
sales over the last year and was recognised stronger start in life through healthy food and
as the Own-Brand Range of the Year at the physical activities, has supported more than
Grocer Gold Awards 2024. In addition, we have 12,200 projects to date. As part our Fruit & Veg
introduced Own Brand innovation across all for Schools scheme, launched in October, we
tiers, including launches of the Taste Discoveries have supported 400 schools with more than
dinner-for-tonight range, inspired by Japanese 5 million portions of fruit and veg.
and Korean cuisine, and High Protein and Gut
Sense ranges.
For more information
about our results use
the QR code above
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 14 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 12.
Group Chief Executive’s review continued
We’ve also continued to focus on food donations We’ve continued our drive to reduce plastic use Progress on our strategic priorities
– with 300 million meals donated to charities in our operations, removing millions of pieces of
Our strategic priorities continue to play a
and local communities in the UK since 2016/17. plastic from our stores and supply chain. We’ve
vital role in keeping us laser-focused on our
moved our Finest pasta from plastic to paper
Our Stronger Starts apprenticeship scheme customers in a competitive and fast-paced
packaging and trialled the use of laser etching
continues to offer hundreds of young people from market. We dig into the details of our strategic
on our avocados.
Customer: some of the UK’s most deprived communities the priorities on pages 16 and 17, but I would like to
chance to develop life skills and take their first I’m happy with our work on health, where say a few words here.
Up to
steps on the path to a fulfilling career in retail. we have made strong progress towards our
Magnetic value – our colleagues work day-in,
commitment of 65% healthy sales by 2025
Looking after the planet day-out to make sure we’re giving our customers
in the UK and ROI.
£392 the best possible value, quality and a great
We continue to make great strides towards our
And we have continued to look after our shopping experience, no matter how they
commitment to be carbon neutral in our own
suppliers, who’ve ranked us number one in choose to shop with Tesco.
annual savings per customer operations by 2035. Our tenth rail service, the Advantage supplier survey for the ninth
with Clubard Prices serving the north west of England, means we consecutive year. I love my Tesco Clubcard – more than 23 million
now move more than 300 million cases on the UK households now hold a Clubcard, with
Tesco rail network each year. The signing of a Tesco Bank Group-wide app users now up to 18 million.
Community: new power purchase agreement ensures we’ll We have delivered an increase in Clubcard
In November, we completed the sale of our
receive enough solar energy from the Cleve Hill sales penetration across all markets with the
300m Banking operations and began an associated
solar park to power the equivalent of 144 large UK at 84%, ROI 87% and Central Europe 88%.
strategic partnership with Barclays. This
stores every year – a tenth of our total electricity The launch of our AI-powered Clubcard
partnership allows us to unlock even greater
total number of meals demand. A further deal for a windfarm at Challenges campaign amplified our efforts to
value for Tesco Bank customers, giving them
donated to charities Stranoch will add clean energy for the give customers ever-greater personalisation,
access to new and innovative propositions while
and local communities equivalent of 80 average-sized supermarkets. with more than 10 million given the chance
continuing to enjoy the unique benefits of Tesco
in the UK since 2016/17 to earn up to £50 worth of Clubcard vouchers
Clubcard. I want to thank all our colleagues at
over Christmas.
Tesco Bank for their hard work, helping millions
of loyal customers to manage their money for Easily the most convenient – Tesco continues
more than 25 years. to help customers shop with us wherever,
whenever and however they want. We have
Following the sale, we will return £700m to
opened 90 new stores across the Group,
shareholders via an incremental share buyback.
Whoosh goes from strength to strength, and
now offers delivery from a number of large
stores. And while Booker has faced some
challenging market conditions, we welcomed
a further 566 net new retail partners, taking
the total to just under 8,000.
Save to invest – we are always looking for ways
we can be a simpler and more efficient business,
allowing us to reinvest in the things that matter
most to our customers and colleagues. We
Our Stronger Starts apprenticeship scheme delivered £510m efficiency savings for the
2024/25 financial year and have seen continued
continues to offer hundreds of young people progress across all areas, including goods &
services not for resale, operations, property
from some of the UK’s most deprived
and central overheads.
communities the chance to develop life skills
and take their first steps on the path to
a fulfilling career in retail.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 15 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 13.
Group Chief Executive’s review continued
Executive team
Spotlight on:
In July, our Group General Counsel, Adrian
Morris, left Tesco after a career of 11 years
leading our Legal team and as a member of the F inest.
Executive Committee. Adrian had an immense
impact on our business, providing invaluable
guidance through the turnaround efforts and
beyond – ensuring Tesco is stronger and more
resilient than ever.
I was delighted to confirm the permanent
appointment of Kay Majid as our Group
General Counsel and member of the Executive
Committee in September. Kay has had a
Celebrating 25 years of making the everyday
significant impact on Tesco in her 15 years with
that little bit more special.
the business, leading our UK legal agenda and
acting as an inspirational champion in her It was a remarkable year for Finest, which recently celebrated
support for the Parents and Carers network. its 25th anniversary and continued to win share from
premium retailers.
Looking ahead
Thanks to our continued investment in quality, we saw a
Building on our strong financial performance,
15% year-on-year increase in UK sales of Finest products as
robust balance sheet and positive momentum,
customers turned to Tesco to help them elevate any occasion.
we are setting ourselves up for the year ahead
with the flexibility to continue to win in a highly At Christmas, we launched more than 300 Finest festive
competitive market. Despite further headwinds products into store to build on a spike in sales last Christmas,
from cost inflation, we are committed to including our expanded Chef’s Collection range, which offers
ensuring customers get the best possible customers restaurant-quality food from the comfort of their
value by shopping at Tesco and see further own home.
opportunities to strengthen our competitiveness.
Our Finest Champagne, Premier Cru, won best Champagne
By putting customers first, we will continue
in a Which? taste test, seeing off competition from a number
to create sustainable value for every stakeholder
of branded competitors.
in Tesco.
And to top it all off, Finest was recognised as the Own-Label
Range of the Year at the 2024 Grocer Gold Awards.
Ken Murphy
Group Chief Executive
9 April 2025
400
new Finest products
launched in 2024/25.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 16 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 14.
UK market context
UK market
context.
Spotlight on: Spotlight on: Spotlight on:
Consumer Sustainability Refocus
spending. focus. on health.
Market drivers Market drivers Market drivers
Following a period of cautious optimism, consumers are now much Sustainability remains at the forefront of consumers’ minds, With many customers now more financially confident, health is
more intentional with their spending. This means that they now having become less of a priority during COVID-19 and the peak of back on the agenda. 57% of consumers say that health is a priority
want to apply more focus on deciding what things they really want the cost-of-living crisis. Consumers want organisations and for them, increasing from 53% last year, meaning it is the highest
to spend on. institutions to take personal action, with 59% stating that tackling life priority amongst all consumers right now. There are a variety
climate change should be a top priority. of ways that consumers intend on being healthy, depending on
This attitude has been driven by a decrease in personal finance
their personal circumstances and life stage.
concern, while inflation concern has dipped year-on-year. It has
been fuelled further by a desire amongst many to bring joy back
into their lives, caused by disruptive and negative news about the
world around us.
44% 59% 57%
concerned about inflation. believe climate change should be a top priority. prioritising health.
Sources: Foresight Factory, Basis, Nielsen IQ, Kokoro Sources: IGD, Mintel, Kokoro Sources: Mintel, Kokoro
How we are responding How we are responding How we are responding
– 400 new Finest products launched this year. – We published our Greenprint report for UK farming, alongside – Introduced health-led Own Brand High Protein and
– Sales of our Finest range products increased by 15% in the UK our partners at Harper Adams University’s School of Sustainable Gut Sense ranges.
year-on-year. Food and Farming. The report sets out recommendations across – Health charity partnerships with the British Heart Foundation,
– We have been the cheapest full-line grocer for more than key subjects for the sector, including financial certainty, Cancer Research UK and Diabetes UK to promote advice on health.
two years. innovation and attracting talent. – Tesco Pharmacies in more than 360 stores serving half a million
– We price-match Aldi on more than 600 products, we have more – Renewable energy projects including Cleve Hill solar farm, the customers a week with a range of services from flu jabs to blood
than 1,000 products in our Low Everyday Prices offer and have largest solar corporate power purchase agreement contract, pressure checks.
around 8,000 exclusive offers per week through Clubcard Prices. operational in the first half of 2025. – On track to hit our UK and ROI target of 65% of sales volume of
– Introduced our tenth ‘Tesco train’ rail service to reduce freight healthy food by the end of December 2025, now at 64%.
road miles.
– Moved our Finest range of dried pasta into paper packaging to
reduce plastic consumption.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 17 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 15.
Our market context continued
Spotlight on: Spotlight on: Following a period of cautious
optimism, consumers are
Future of Local
now much more intentional
technology. community.
with their spending.
Market drivers Market drivers
While tech continues to accelerate forward, and to become a The pandemic and cost-of-living crisis has meant that in recent
more integrated, dynamic and accessible part of our lives, there years many customers have been spending more time in their local
are some for whom the human touch remains important. Indeed, community and paying attention to how things have changed.
71% agree that modern tech is necessary to solve future problems.
71% 45%
think modern tech can solve future problems. value community and local causes.
Sources: Google Trends, WGSN, Ipsos, Kokoro Source: Kokoro
How we are responding How we are responding
– All our stores offer a choice between colleague-operated and – We have launched Tesco Fruit & Veg for Schools to support
self-service checkouts and there are always colleagues on hand. 400 schools with 5 million portions of fruit.
– We use an automation tool to make sure we are discounting the – Tesco’s Stronger Starts has provided financial support to over
right products at the right time, helping customers to get the 12,200 projects from community groups and schools, to help
best value and enabling us to reduce food waste. provide a healthier start to kids’ lives.
– We utilise AI to optimise the routes our drivers take, finding the – Our annual Winter Food Collection donated 1.9 million meals
most efficient combination of products, baskets and journeys for to foodbanks.
every lorry and delivery van, so that we reduce our overall mileage. – Launched free career clinics for 765 people in economically
challenged areas to support them back into work.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 18 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 16.
Our strategic priorities
How we
Magnetic value for customers
do it.
Redefining value to become the
customer’s favourite
Why is it important?
Our strategic priorities enable us to continue – Demonstrating the importance of value underpinned by price,
to deliver great value, reward customers for quality and sustainability.
– Removing price as a reason to shop elsewhere.
their loyalty and stay competitive while
– Making healthy, sustainable food affordable for everyone.
ensuring we remain an agile and efficient – Working with suppliers to develop sustainably sourced products
of the highest quality.
business. Our focus on doing the basics
– Continuing to make a positive contribution to the communities
brilliantly helps us to drive top-line growth, in which we operate.
grow profit and generate cash, and in doing
Progress during the year
so, deliver for all of our stakeholders. – Winning value combination of Aldi Price Match on more than
600 lines, Low Everyday Prices on more than 1,000 lines and I love my Tesco Clubcard
c.8,000 Clubcard Prices deals each week; Clubcard Prices save
customers up to £392 off their annual grocery bill.
– Further own-brand innovation across all tiers, including launches Creating a competitive advantage through
of the Taste Discoveries dinner-for-tonight range inspired by
our powerful digital capability
Japanese and Korean cuisine, and health-led High Protein and
Gut Sense ranges. Why is it important?
– Further progress in customer satisfaction scores at Booker, – Continuing to develop a personalised shopping experience for
with 700 prices locked until June 2025. customers by using unique insights offered by one of the UK’s
– Expanded our Low Price Guarantee in Central Europe, adding leading digital retail platforms.
an average of c.650 mostly branded products in each market. – Growing incremental revenue opportunities with suppliers to
– Exclusive Clubcard deals on everyday services such as fixed help them offer customers tailored and relevant products.
prices for the length of a contract with Tesco Mobile.
Progress during the year
– Clubcard celebrates 30 years with unrivalled customer reach;
over 23 million Clubcard households in the UK with new
campaigns including 10,000 bonus points for customers who
use Clubcard vouchers when booking with easyJet Holidays.
– Expanding the largest and most generous supermarket Reward
Partner scheme, with Virgin Red and five new visitor attractions
becoming Reward Partners; customers can now earn Clubcard
Points with the purchase of a new Vauxhall car.
– Tesco Media and Insight Platform saw growth in active
advertisers and spend per campaign, with the team ranked joint
#1 in Flywheel’s European retail media rankings and shortlisted
for Media Brand of the Year at the Media Week Awards.
– Over 9,000 retail media campaigns delivered; creativity
enhancements included fully integrated Coca-Cola campaign
over Christmas, comprising onsite and offsite media, exclusive
competitions and products, and wrapping home delivery vans.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 19 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 17.
Our strategic priorities continued
Save to invest
Our strategic priorities continue to play
a vital role in keeping us laser-focused
A cost-efficient retailer
on our customers in a competitive and
Why is it important? fast-paced market.
– Aiming to simplify, be more productive and reduce costs.
– Focus on offsetting inflation in the medium term and creating
headroom to fund investments.
– Committed to spending money only where it adds value for
customers and makes a real difference.
Progress during the year
– Save to invest progress, delivering £510m of savings for FY 24/25.
– Continued progress across all areas, including goods & services
not for resale, operations, property and central overheads.
– New robotic automation implemented at our Peterborough
distribution centre, with Aylesford semi-automated distribution
Easily the most convenient centre on track to open in summer 2025.
– End-to-end review of stock flow from suppliers to store,
optimising waste performance and improving availability.
– Simplifying in-store routines, supported by the rollout of new
Serving customers wherever, whenever and
fresh food fixtures which enable faster replenishment.
however they want to be served – Taking action to reduce stock loss, including security system
enhancements at checkouts and investments in new
Why is it important? technology at our Daventry security hub.
– Supporting growth of our core business.
– Continuing evolution of large stores as the backbone of
online grocery business as we maximise our existing assets.
– Continuing to test and learn with on-demand services to
develop the right offer for our customers.
Progress during the year
– Opened 90 stores across the Group: 64 in the UK, 12 in ROI and
Performance framework
14 in Central Europe; and refreshed a further 463.
– UK online sales up 10.2%, driven by growth in orders per week,
We set out the framework in 2021 and will continue to
with market share up 173bps year-on-year to 35.5%.
use it to guide our actions and track our progress.
– UK online customer satisfaction up 8pts year-on-year and 150
new delivery vans launched to increase capacity; Delivery Saver Drive top-line growth, underpinned by
subscribers at 770,000, up 9% year-on-year. – Increasing customer satisfaction relative to the market
– Integrated a further 566 net new Booker retail partners, taking – Growing or at least maintaining our core UK market share
the total outlets to just under 8,000; integration of Venus
Grow absolute profits while maintaining margins
acquisition progressing well, with new distribution centre
– Use assets efficiently across all channels
opened within Makro branch in Manchester.
– Access new revenue streams across our digital platform
– Target productivity initiatives that at least offset inflation
in the medium term
Generate between £1.4bn and £1.8bn free cash flow
each year – with £1,750m achieved in 2024/25.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 20 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 18.
Our business model
Our business With our winning combination of reach, innovation, insight
and expertise, we can provide customers with the products they
want – whenever, wherever and however they want to be served.
model.
Our unique strengths
Insights
Our reach Knowing our customers Customers
With 4,572 stores and a thriving online Through our retail expertise and insight, Listening to our
Customer
business, we have unparalleled scale to we have a unique understanding of what customers and acting
reach customers, wherever they are our customers want on what is most
important to them
when they shop with us.
Products
Serving our
customers, Working closely with
A best-in-class supply chain Strong supplier relationships communities and our suppliers to source
the right products
Flexibility and resilience in our supply chain Excellent links with suppliers help drive planet a little
at the right price for
help us respond better to external events greater quality, value and availability better every day our customers.
Channel Product Channels
Serving customers
whenever, wherever
and however they want
Breadth of offer
Investing in our business to be served – from
Leading range development driven by insight large and convenience
Strong free cash flow enables investment
and sourcing expertise helps us react to stores to grocery home
in growth and innovation
evolving customer demand shopping and Whoosh.
Insights
Helping to execute our strategy Creating value for all
Magnetic value for customers I love my Tesco Clubcard Customers Colleagues Communities
Easily the most convenient Save to invest Planet Suppliers Shareholders
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 21 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 19.
Key performance indicators
Our
The performance of our Banking operations has been presented as a discontinued operation to the date of disposal and has been excluded from our headline performance measures.
Δ Alternative performance measures (APMs). Measures with the Δ symbol are defined in the Glossary section on pages 228 to 234.
(a) Group sales exclude VAT and fuel.
Big 6 KPIs. (b) Growth is at constant exchange rates.
(c) Operating cash flow is the same as the statutory measure Cash generated from/(used in) operations presented on a continuing operations basis, excluding Insurance and Money Services.
Growth is at actual exchange rates. See Glossary, reconciliation of cash flow measures, for a reconciliation to the Group equivalent.
(d) Basis Tesco Global Brand tracker on a three-month rolling basis.
(e) Carbon emissions are based on total Scope 1 and 2 (market-based) footprint and stated as tonnes of CO2 equivalent (tCO2e), see pages 39 and 240.
Grow sales Deliver profit Colleagues recommend us as a great place to work and shop
Why it is important: Sustainable growth in sales Why it is important: Delivering profitable Why it is important: When we get things right for our more than 340,000 colleagues, we make it even
is important to our business model. growth is essential as we aim to create easier for them to do what they do best – serving our customers, communities and planet a little better
What we measure: Group sales is a measure long-term value for all stakeholders. every day.
of revenue excluding fuel sales made at petrol What we measure: Group adjusted operating What we measure: Our Great Place to Work measure is the percentage of colleagues who agree or
filling stations. It demonstrates the Group’s profit is the headline measure of the Group’s strongly agree with the statement ‘I would recommend Tesco as a great place to work’. Great Place
performance in the retail and financial services performance. to Shop is an NPS measure, answering the question ‘I would recommend Tesco as a place to shop’.
businesses by removing volatilities associated How we performed: Group adjusted operating How we performed: Our Great Place to Work score increased again this year to 85%.
with the movement in fuel prices that are profit rose by 10.9% at constant exchange
outside the control of management. rates to £3.1bn, reflecting our strong trading
How we performed: Group sales rose by performance across the Group and continued
4.0% at constant exchange rates, driven by cost savings.
strong growth across all segments.
Group SalesΔ Group Adjusted operating profitΔ Recommend as a place to shop Great Place to Work
£63.6bn 4.0%(a)(b) £3.1bn 10.9%(b) 49pts 3pts 85% 1%
(2024: £61.5bn) (2024: £2.8bn) (2024: 46pts) (2024: 84%)
Improve operating cash flow Customers recommend us and Climate – reduce Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 60% by 2025
come back time and again
Why it is important: Strong cash generation Why it is important: Customers are at the heart Why it is important: This measure reflects the importance we place on minimising our impact
is important to our underlying philosophy with of everything we do, and customer satisfaction on the planet.
which we manage our business. is an important driver of loyalty. What we measure: Based on our commitment to reduce Scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions by 60% by
What we measure: Operating cash flow is the What we measure: Our score reflects the 2025, we measure the reduction in tonnes of CO 2 equivalent (tCO 2 e) vs our 2015/16 baseline.
cash generated from continuing operations, percentage of Fans minus Critics answering How we performed: Our carbon emissions have reduced by a further 10% vs last year. This has been
excluding Insurance and Money Services. It is a the question ‘How likely is it that you would achieved through identifying and implementing efficiencies, alongside targeted capital investment
measure of cash generation and working capital recommend Tesco to a friend or colleague?’ to decarbonise our hot spots.
efficiency of the Group’s trading operations. How we performed: Our Group NPS score
How we performed: We delivered another has increased as customers have recognised
strong year of operating cash flow of £4.6bn. The our commitment to delivering great value.
decline year-on-year is primarily due to the prior
year benefiting from a working capital inflow
driven by elevated levels of input cost inflation.
Operating cash flow(c) Group NPS(d) Carbon emissions (tCOe)(e)
2
£4.6bn (3.0)% 28pts 9pts 0.8m 10% 65%
(2024: £4.7bn) (2024: 19pts) (2024: 0.9m) vs last year cumulative reduction vs baseline
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 22 ---
SSttrraatteeggiicc rreeppoorrtt GGoovveerrnnaannccee FFiinnaanncciiaall ssttaatteemmeennttss AAddddiittiioonnaall iinnffoorrmmaattiioonn 20.
Stakeholder engagement
Stakeholder Priorities and engagement Board oversight
Colleagues
We aim to create a positive culture at Tesco The Board recognises the need to create
85% which aligns our purpose, values and behaviours conditions that foster talent and encourage
engagement. and to create an inclusive workplace, where all colleagues to achieve their full potential.
of colleagues recommend Tesco as a great colleagues feel welcome and able to be Through Every Voice Matters colleague
place to work (up 1% on 2023/24) themselves. We are upskilling and reskilling our engagement surveys, feedback through our
More detail on our colleague policies, workforce to meet both current job demands news & views communications platform,
reward and benefits can be found on and emerging jobs in the future. twice-yearly CCPs and regular updates on
Each decision taken by the Board pages 8 and 11. More detail on Everyone’s The launch of an internal news & views people initiatives surrounding our culture,
welcome can be found on page 23. More communications platform continues to enhance purpose and values, the Board has the
aligns to our culture and values, detail on our Colleague Contribution colleague engagement. Through our CCPs oversight to understand what is important
and considers the benefits, risks, Panels (CCPs) can be found on page 69. and the results of the Every Voice Matters to our colleagues and what is required to
create the workforce of the future.
financial implications and impact engagement survey we receive valuable
feedback and insight on colleague views. As our business evolves, we want to make sure
on relevant stakeholders. Why they are important colleagues have the skills they need to succeed
We have continued to collaborate with the
We cannot deliver our purpose without our now and in the future. Safety is also central to
The Board believes that understanding its dedicated workforce. They are at the heart USDAW trade union on safety measures. Our how we do business, with the aim of protecting
stakeholders and what matters to them is key of everything we do. As our business evolves, support of their campaign to protect retail our colleagues and customers from injury.
to its success. The Directors place significant we want to make sure colleagues have the skills workers from physical and verbal abuse has More information on our CCPs can be found
importance on looking after the safety of they need to succeed now and in the future. brought about increased protection for our on page 69.
colleagues, customers and anyone else colleagues, to bring it in line with the protection
impacted by our business. The following table Our colleagues want to be treated fairly and of emergency service workers. The government
identifies our key stakeholders and feel supported with their health, safety and is in the process of introducing a new standalone Customers
wellbeing, while being recognised and rewarded offence of assaulting a retail worker, following
summarises the engagement undertaken
during the year. It includes some of the for their contribution. Safety is central to how an industry-wide campaign. 28
we do business, with a heavy focus on protecting
actions taken as a result of this engagement. our colleagues. Outcomes and highlights in 2024/25 NPS
Tesco announced a £180m investment in
No.1
colleague pay, bringing the hourly rate for
our UK store colleagues up to at least £12.64 voted Britain’s favourite supermarket
from the end of August 2025. by customers
Our colleagues have gained from an enhanced More detail on how we support
benefits package in recent times, including a our customers can be found on
number of family-friendly policies, such as pages 8 to 9 and pages 11 to 13.
enhancements to paid maternity, neonatal,
fertility, adoption and kinship leave. We have
Why they are important
also introduced flexible and guaranteed working
arrangements, health and financial wellbeing Tesco was built to be a champion for customers,
85% benefits including advice and guidance, unlimited serving them every day with affordable, healthy
appointments with a virtual GP and Pay Advance and sustainable food. Our commitment to our
of colleagues recommend enabling colleagues to receive up to 25% of their customers extends beyond our stores, and into
Tesco as a great place to work. contractual pay early. every community we serve.
The safety of our colleagues is our number one Our customer net promoter score (NPS) is
priority. We continue to roll out a number of measured based on customers recommending
measures to protect colleagues, including body us as a place to shop and is a key metric in
cameras for colleagues working across our measuring our progress.
stores and delivery drivers, as well as installing
We make it a priority to listen to our customers,
new protective screens at hundreds of Express
so that we can keep serving them better every
stores and petrol station kiosks.
day, either in stores or online.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 23 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 21.
Stakeholder engagement continued
Priorities and engagement Board oversight Priorities and engagement Board oversight
We serve millions of customers in store and online The Board uses customer engagement surveys We continue to build trusted relationships with our Our suppliers provide feedback through our
every day. We actively seek customer feedback and data analysis to listen to customer views and suppliers and work with them to deliver healthier product management teams and through our
on a regular basis which, combined with the act on what is most important to deliver the best and more sustainable products for our customers, annual Supplier Viewpoint survey. Suppliers
information we gather from Tesco Clubcard as possible quality products and services, at great which are affordable. Our work on human rights is are also supported by our Business Code of
well as independent consumer research, helps value and in the most convenient way. Innovation fully integrated within our operations, forming a Conduct, and any material matters raised by
us to really get to know our customers. in customer research is a pivotal part of key part of our broader commitment to being a suppliers are reported to the Audit Committee.
understanding customer behaviour, development responsible and sustainable business. We will
Despite falling inflation, our customers have The Board recognises the importance of
of our Own Brand products and creating always look to work with suppliers to meet our
continued to feel the pressure of the cost of suppliers being treated fairly to align with our
competitive advantage. The Board receives responsible sourcing and ethical requirements.
living this year and value has been extremely values. The Board receives regular updates
regular updates on customer insights We engage our suppliers through regular contact
important to them. Whether that is the value on our product and supplier strategy and have
to understand customer behaviours and our with our Product teams, as well as through
they get from our Aldi Price Match, Low Everyday oversight of our sourcing priorities through
customers’ needs. It is important to the Board supplier surveys. Suppliers are also supported by
Prices and Clubcard Prices proposition or the our sustainability strategy and objectives.
to make healthy and sustainable products our Business Code of Conduct, and any material
value they get from treating themselves to a Understanding the challenges we face and the
accessible and affordable for all and it is matters raised by suppliers are reported to the
Tesco Finest night in, rather than a meal out. support we can provide, supports the Board
essential that we keep innovating for the future. Audit Committee. We ensure delivery against
delivering its strategy and objectives.
In addition to value, it is important to our Innovative projects help deliver the strategy our commitments under the Groceries Supply
customers that we are helping them to eat more to drive the business forward to meet the Code of Practice (GSCOP) through a number
healthily and to get whatever they need in the changing needs of our customers, the of mechanisms, including reporting to the
Shareholders
most convenient way. environment we operate in and the delivery Audit Committee.
of our net zero commitments. £1,750m
Outcomes and highlights in 2024/25 Outcomes and highlights in 2024/25
We are committed to offering our customers We are delighted to have achieved the number Free cash flow
great value and have been the cheapest full-line Suppliers one position in the Advantage supplier survey for
13.70p
grocer for more than two years. the ninth year in a row. We are encouraged by the
In the 2024 Advantage survey, our suppliers progress we have made so far to deliver healthy, per ordinary share full year dividend
In the UK our unique customer offer combines
have ranked us the #1 retailer to work with in affordable and more sustainable products and will
Aldi Price Match on more than 600 lines, we have the UK for the ninth year running. continue greater collaboration with our suppliers More detail can be found in the Financial
more than 1,000 products in our Low Everyday review on pages 24 to 30.
and partners as we work towards our objectives
Prices offer and have around 8,000 exclusive We surpassed our highest Group supplier
and support them to achieve their net zero
offers per week through Clubcard Prices. satisfaction to date and achieved an overall
commitments. We are also supporting suppliers
We have also reduced the price of more than Group supplier satisfaction of 88.2% in our Why they are important
to improve diversity within their businesses.
200 essential lines in our Express stores by an H2 2024/25 Supplier Viewpoint survey.
Through our sustainable farming groups we Our shareholders want us to create value and
average of 10% this year.
More detail can be found continue to: bring together industry deliver long-term, sustainable growth and
We have also introduced in-store Better Baskets on page 238. representatives; share knowledge between returns. Understanding the views of our
zones that signpost foods high in fibre, plant- farmers, suppliers and Tesco colleagues; and trial shareholders supports the decisions we
based options and food under 100 calories. innovations that can help reduce on-farm take and the opportunities we create.
Why they are important emissions and protect biodiversity.
Our partnerships with suppliers are vitally This year, we have launched The Future Dairy
important in delivering great value and great Partnership with our suppliers Arla and Muller
quality products for our customers. When we UK & Ireland, which is a farmer-led partnership
get it right together, our customers benefit and aiming to put sustainability at the heart of
the business grows. Tesco and its suppliers are the dairy industry. We have also bolstered
committed to responsibly-sourced products, support for British farmers by relaunching
helping to deliver our net zero commitments our Tesco Sustainable Pig Group, in partnership
under Scope 3 by 2050. with Cranswick.
We have also welcomed the second intake
of young farmers to our Tesco Future Farmer
programme in the UK.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 24 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 22.
Stakeholder engagement continued
Priorities and engagement Board oversight Outcomes and highlights in 2024/25
Communities
Regular dialogue with our institutional investors, The Board places great importance in helping In January this year, we published our Greenprint
potential investors and analysts provides insight More than 99 million the communities we serve, recognising the vital for UK farming report alongside our partners at
to their views and policies, which is reflected in role we play, through the people we employ, Harper Adams University’s School of Sustainable
our decision making. It is the Board’s intention to meals donated across the Group in 2024/25 businesses we work with, and the causes we Food and Farming. The report sets out
continue to pay a progressive dividend by aiming More than £13.4m support. Understanding the initiatives and recommendations across several key areas,
to grow the dividend per share each year, positive impact we have on local communities including: a long-term vision for the sector;
broadly targeting a payout of around 50% of awarded by Stronger Starts to over 12,200 is a key part of the Board’s oversight. the need for government to better support UK
earnings. Our long-term plan sets out our growth projects farmers through a long-term land use and food
ambitions over the next three years, including security strategy; improved funding for all stages
More information on the Sustainability
continued delivery for all stakeholders and Planet of innovation that aids sustainability; and setting
Committee’s visit to Groundwork can be
ongoing cash returns to our shareholders. common environmental standards which
found on page 80. 65% farmers can regularly measure against to help
Outcomes and highlights in 2024/25 reduction in emissions of own operations prioritise investment in the most effective and
The investments we have made to date have Why they are important since 2015 sustainable farming techniques.
strengthened our offer to customers, made
We place great importance on helping the We signed the UK’s largest solar corporate
us more efficient, and more digitally capable, More information on the planet initiatives
communities we serve. We play a vital role in power purchase agreement in October 2024
establishing a strong foundation for future can be found on pages 31 to 39.
local communities, through the people we with Cleve Hill solar park in Kent, which will
growth. We continue to see the buyback
employ, businesses we work with, and the provide the equivalent of 10% of Tesco’s UK
programme as an ongoing and critical driver
causes we support. Cost-of-living pressures electricity demand.
of shareholder returns. We have had regular Why it is important
have put significant strain on many of
dialogue with shareholders during the year, our communities. We have built sustainability into our purpose, We continued to reduce the environmental
including through calls, individual and group strategy and business plans. We know that our impact of deliveries to our stores by introducing
meetings, with a particular focus on themes Priorities and engagement business depends on the world around us. As the our tenth ‘Tesco train’ rail service to reduce
such as ongoing performance, competitive Tesco redistributes surplus food from its UK’s largest retailer, we know we can make a big freight road miles.
advantages in our core UK market and distribution network and stores through its difference. We aim to be carbon neutral across Board oversight
sustainability. This engagement helps us to charity and community partners, FareShare and our own operations by 2035. We are working with
understand shareholder priorities and their Olio. Colleagues and customers join our regular suppliers and partners to deliver our goal to be Our commitment to operating in a responsible
views on how we are progressing. We welcome food collections to support FareShare and net zero from farm to fork by 2050. and sustainable way reflects our values. The
engagement with private shareholders at delivery of our sustainability commitments
Trussell. Tesco also provides financial support
our Annual General Meeting. Priorities and engagement through the planet plan has brought together all
to help the charities in their work. Our
Board oversight C UK o m he m lp u n u i s t y b C ui h ld a m re p la io ti n o s n i s n h s ip to s r w e i s t h a c c r o o m ss m t u h n e i t ies T c e lim sc a o t e h a c s h a a n lo g n e. g s O t u a r n c d o in m g m co it m m m en it t m t e o n o t p t e o r t a a t c in k g li n in g o em f t i h ss e i o w n o s r . k R w e e gu a la re r u d p o d in a g t e to s t r o e d th u e c e B S o c a o rd p e a n 1 d a nd 2
Members of the Board, senior management and and support local events and initiatives. a responsible and sustainable way reflects our Sustainability Committee on the progress against
Investor Relations hold regular meetings with values. We will continue to deliver action on each of the pillars of the plan, support the Board
existing and potential institutional investors and Outcomes and highlights in 2024/25 climate through our planet plan, which has been in reviewing progress against each of our key
analysts to understand their views and policies. Our Community Food Connection scheme has successfully rolled out across our business. milestones and enhance its understanding of
The Board receives regular updates to ensure grown into the biggest food redistribution Priorities include reducing emissions across our how activities at an operational level ladder up
it understands the market we operate in, initiative of its kind in the UK. To date it has own operations and supply chain and building on to meet our sustainability commitments.
considers the views of shareholders to provide provided more than 300 million equivalent meals our work to provide customers with affordable,
expected returns and grow the business in line to charities and local communities who depend healthy, sustainable food, through initiatives
with strategy, which is reflected in our decision on the food they receive to be able to support such as our Better Baskets scheme, which helps
making. The Group Company Secretary’s team people facing hunger. We launched Stronger customers make better choices in the food
engages with private shareholders with the Starts, a programme to help give children a they buy.
support of our registrar, Equiniti, who provide
healthier, stronger start in life and help them
services to private shareholders on our behalf.
thrive. The scheme, supported by UK community
charity Groundwork, replaced the Tesco
Community Grants programme and is boosted
with an additional £1m funding each year,
through our share forfeiture fund until 2026/27.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 25 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 23.
Everyone’s welcome
Everyone’s At Tesco, we’re committed to continuing to represent the customers
and communities we serve and the colleagues who work here. We’re a
place where Everyone’s welcome and we treat people how they want
welcome.
to be treated.
Over the last year, we made continued progress Our five colleague commitments guide us in – continued progress on our Black action plan, – worked to a minimum standard framework
on ensuring Tesco is a great place to work, creating meaningful action plans to better addressing Black inclusion at every point in across the Group to support colleagues with a
including supporting our managers through support our workforce: the colleague lifecycle. disability. Doing so has seen us achieve Disability
improved training to help them to better support Confident status across our UK business; and
Inclusion for all Flexibility for all
their teams. – supported colleagues with workplace adjustments.
Colleagues work in an environment where they Enabling colleagues to thrive at Tesco, with a
To accelerate our progress further, and ensure feel they can be themselves, are valued, and see culture that embraces and supports flexible Transform recruitment
we are driving forward the things that matter
themselves represented at every level. We … working. We … Colleagues and candidates experience a positive
most to our workforce, we focused on colleague
listening: hosting listening groups and launching – continued making progress against our – began advertising all full-time vacancies with the and inclusive recruitment experience so that
a Group-wide survey, giving every colleague the representation targets; option of part-time hours ahead of legislation; we can attract and retain the best talent. We …
chance to tell us more about their experiences – ranked in the Times Top 50 for Gender Equality – updated our tools and resources to support – launched a new global careers site, making
at Tesco. in the UK for the fourth year running, as well as colleagues and their managers to have jobs across the Tesco Group more visible
We have more than 25 colleague networks across being a Stonewall Top 50 LGBTQ+ employer; conversations about working flexibly; and and accessible;
the Group, which amplify, consult and celebrate – strengthened and refreshed our anti-bullying, – launched our free Care Concierge service in the – began rolling out refreshed training for
inclusion across every part of our business. They harassment & discrimination policy and training; UK to support those caring for elderly relatives. hiring managers, to support an inclusive
create spaces for colleagues to share challenges, – continued delivering our women’s development Accessible first hiring process.
programme, supporting more than 200 high-
explore career paths and connect with like-
potential women at Tesco to realise their potential, Our colleagues with different accessibility needs Developing careers
minded individuals.
with tools and development opportunities; and should feel supported at Tesco, whether that’s in Supporting underrepresented and disadvantaged
a physical environment, our technology systems
people to gain experiences, skills and behaviours
or the communications we share. We …
to enhance their career choices. We ...
– welcomed 86 Stronger Starts retail apprentices in
Below is the schedule in accordance with UK Listing Rule 6.6.6(10). Gender and ethnicity data is collected through the Group’s payroll system using the the UK, supporting underrepresented young
legally registered gender for each colleague. Ethnicity data for the Board and Executive Committee is obtained through the Group’s Directors’ disclosures people from high-deprivation areas into work at
questionnaire and the voluntary diversity questionnaire – This is Me. our stores, helping them to build their confidence
and skills. We are expanding the programme in
Data as at No. of Board % of the No. of senior members No. of Executive % of Executive No. of top % of top No. of % of 2025, hiring an additional 450 school leavers;
22 February 2025 members Board on the Board Committee Committee global leaders1 global leaders1 employees employees
– gave 347 young people who would struggle to
Men 7 58 3 7 64 178 68 164,393 49 access the job market the opportunity to work in
Women 5 42 1 4 36 83 32 172,034 51 our stores for 2–3 weeks, through our movement
Not specified/prefer not to say 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 13 0 to work festive work placements; and
– supported our 79 graduates with hands-on
Data as at No. of % of No. of senior members No. of Executive % of Executive retail assignments to build an understanding
22 February 2025 Board members the Board on the Board Committee Committee of our customers and frontline operations.
White British or other White (including minority-white groups) 10 83 3 7 64 This deepens their business perspectives
Mixed/multiple ethnic groups 0 0 0 0 0 and informs their decision making, so they
are equipped with practical insights and
Asian/Asian British 2 17 1 2 18
leadership skills.
Black/African/Caribbean/Black British 0 0 0 0 0
Other ethnic group, including Arab 0 0 0 0 0 For more information on progress against
Not specified/prefer not to say 0 0 0 2 18 our Board DE&I policy see page 75.
1. Definition of top global leaders: work levels 4 to 6.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 26 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 24.
Financial review
Gr wth. Group review of performance.
On a continuing operations basis1
Change at Change at
52 weeks ended 22 February 20252,8 FY 24/25 FY 23/24 actual rates constant rates
Sales (exc. VAT, exc. fuel)3 £63,636m £61,477m 3.5% 4.0%
Fuel £6,280m £6,710m (6.4)% (6.3)%
We have delivered a strong financial Revenue (exc. VAT, inc. fuel) £69,916m £68,187m 2.5% 3.0%
performance in the year, with higher volumes
Group adjusted operating profit4 £3,128m £2,829m 10.6% 10.9%
driving profit growth and strong cash delivery.
Adjusting items £(417)m £(8)m
Statutory operating profit £2,711m £2,821m (3.9)%
Net finance costs £(492)m £(538)m
Joint ventures and associates £(4)m £6m
Statutory profit before tax £2,215m £2,289m (3.2)%
Taxation £(611)m £(525)m
Statutory profit after tax £1,604m £1,764m (9.1)%
Adjusted diluted EPS4 27.38p 23.41p 17.0%
Statutory diluted EPS 23.13p 24.53p (5.7)%
Dividend per share 13.70p 12.10p 13.2%
Net debt6 £(9,454)m £(9,684)m 2.4%
Free cash flow5 £1,750m £2,063m (15.2)%
Imran Nawaz,
Capex9 £1,457m £1,314m 10.9%
Chief Financial Officer
Sales3 increased by 4.0% at constant rates, including a strong contribution from higher volumes
and improved category mix, supported by our continued investments in value, quality and service.
Revenue increased by 3.0% at constant rates, including a (6.3)% decline in fuel sales, mainly driven
by lower retail prices year-on-year.
Group adjusted operating profit4 increased by 10.9% at constant rates, driven by further progress in
our core retail markets as higher sales volumes and a further c.£510m contribution from Save to invest
more than offset net operating cost inflation. Group adjusted operating profit includes Insurance and
Money Services where adjusted operating profit increased by £86m to £155m, including £46m of
non-recurring items mainly due to a new five-year pet insurance contract.
Statutory operating profit decreased by (3.9)% year-on-year, as the Group adjusted operating profit
growth described above was more than offset by a non-cash net impairment charge on non-current
assets of £(286)m, mainly due to an increase in discount rates driven by higher government bond rates
compared to the prior year.
Net finance costs (including adjusting items) were £46m lower year-on-year, mainly due to lower net
interest costs on medium-term notes as a result of net refinancing activities, and favourable non-cash
mark-to-market movements on certain derivative financial instruments. The higher tax charge this
year was driven by higher operating profit and the full year effect of the increase in UK corporation
tax rates, effective from 1 April 2023.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 27 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 25.
Financial review continued
Adjusted diluted EPS4 grew by 17.0%, driven by the strong growth in Group adjusted operating profit Adjusted operating profit4,8 performance:
described above as well as a benefit from our ongoing share buyback programme, with a further
£1bn of share buybacks completed in the year. Statutory diluted EPS declined by (5.7)%, driven Margin %
Profit Change at Change at Margin % at change at
by the non-cash net impairment charge as described above. We propose to pay a final dividend of
On a continuing operations basis1 (£m) actual rates constant rates actual rates actual rates
9.45 pence per ordinary share, taking the full year dividend to 13.70 pence, up 13.2% year-on-year.
UK & ROI 3,016 10.1% 10.3% 4.6% 30 bps
We generated strong free cash flow5 of £1,750m compared to £2,063m last year, with the prior year Central Europe 112 24.4% 28.9% 2.6% 58 bps
benefiting from higher trade working capital balances, driven by elevated levels of input cost inflation.
Group 3,128 10.6% 10.9% 4.5% 33 bps
Net debt6 reduced by £230m to £(9,454)m, driven by strong free cash flow generation and the receipt
of the £614m Banking operations gross disposal proceeds, partially offset by cash returned to
Further information on operating profit performance is included in Note 2 starting on page 148.
shareholders via dividends and our ongoing share buyback programme. The Net debt/EBITDA
ratio was 2.0 times, down from 2.2 times in the prior year.
Further commentary on these metrics can be found below and a full income statement can be UK & ROI overview:
found on page 135. Like-for-like sales for the UK & ROI segment increased by 3.1%. Volume growth was particularly strong
in the UK and ROI, with growth in every quarter of the year, and continued market share gains across
1. The performance of the Banking operations has been presented as a discontinued operation to the date of disposal. The the year. While Booker delivered a strong performance in core retail and catering, overall like-for-like
Insurance and Money Services business has been presented on a continuing operations basis and therefore within headline sales reduced by (1.8)% due to the continued decline in the tobacco market and weakness in some
performance measures. Further details on discontinued operations can be found in Note 8, starting on page 155. areas of the fast-food market serviced by Best Food Logistics.
2. The Group has defined and outlined the purpose of its alternative performance measures, including its performance highlights,
in the Glossary starting on page 228. UK & ROI adjusted operating profit was £3,016m, up 10.3% at constant rates, driven by volume growth
3. Group sales exclude VAT and fuel.
4. Adjusted operating profit and Adjusted diluted EPS exclude adjusting items. and the ongoing delivery of our Save to invest programme, which offset net operating cost inflation,
5. Free cash flow and return on capital employed (ROCE) are alternative performance measures defined and outlined in the Glossary including colleague pay awards. Insurance and Money Services adjusted operating profit, now included
starting on page 228. within the UK & ROI segment, increased by £86m to £155m, including £46m of non-recurring items,
6. Net debt now includes Insurance and Money Services, with the prior year reported on a consistent basis. The impact on the prior
year is to reduce Net debt by £80m. Further information on Net debt can be found in Note 32, starting on page 209. mainly reflecting the accounting for upfront commission income on the signing of a new five-year pet
7. Like-for-like (LFL) sales growth is a measure of growth in Group sales from stores that have been open for at least a year and insurance contract. The year-on-year growth excluding these items was driven by strong underlying
online sales (at constant exchange rates, excluding VAT and fuel). LFL excludes revenue from dunnhumby, Insurance and Money performance in the insurance business.
Services as this revenue is not directly linked to the sale of goods.
8. All measures are shown on a continuing operations basis unless otherwise stated. UK – Growing volumes and market share:
9. Capex excludes additions arising from business combinations, property buybacks (typically stores) and other store purchases
Like-for-like sales grew by 4.0%, with growth both in stores and online. Volume growth was ahead
and their associated refit costs. Refer to page 232 for further details.
of our expectations, and we consistently grew ahead of the market.
Segmental review of performance: Market share grew by +67bps year-on-year to 28.3%, delivering 21 consecutive four-week periods of
market share growth by the end of the year and our highest market share since 2016 over the
Sales performance:
Christmas period. We continue to deliver improvements in our overall brand perception year-on-year,
(exc. VAT, exc. fuel)3,8 up +185bps and stepping forward across all drivers, including reputation (+282bps), value (+242bps) and
quality (+153bps).
Sales LFL sales Total sales change Total sales change
On a continuing operations basis1 (£m) change7 at actual rates at constant rates Food like-for-like sales grew by 4.9%, with full-year volume growth supported by our ongoing
– UK 47,486 4.0% 5.1% 5.1% investments in product quality and innovation. We launched over 1,000 new products and improved
– ROI 2,974 4.6% 2.9% 5.6% over 600, including Taste Discoveries dinner-for-tonight range and health-led High Protein and Gut
– Booker 8,990 (1.8)% (1.0)% (1.0)% Sense ranges. Our Finest range continued to perform well, with sales up 15% year-on-year, including
record sales over the festive period.
UK & ROI 59,450 3.1% 4.0% 4.2%
Central Europe 4,186 2.2% (3.0)% 2.5% We are committed to ensuring that customers get the best value for money by shopping at Tesco.
Over 2,300 products were cheaper at the end of the year than at the start, with an average reduction
Sales 63,636 3.1% 3.5% 4.0%
of around 9%.
Further information on sales performance is included in the appendices starting on page 226.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 28 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 26.
Financial review continued
Clothing like-for-like sales grew by 3.0% due to a strong performance in womenswear, with further Food like-for-like sales grew by 5.0%, driven by strong volume growth in fresh food. Our Finest
development of our F&F Active and F&F Edit ranges. Home like-for-like sales declined by (2.2)%, range performed well with year-on-year volume growth of over 29%.
which includes a (5.5)ppts drag from the transition to our new partnership with The Entertainer.
Non-food like-for-like sales grew by 0.9%, which includes a (3.1)ppts impact from the transition to our
The partnership, which offers customers an even better range of toys in our stores, means we no
new partnership with The Entertainer, as in the UK. Excluding toys, non-food like-for-like sales grew by
longer recognise toy sales, and instead earn commission income. The transition completed in the
4.0%, with a strong contribution from Home driven by a refreshed proposition which has now been
second half of the year and is now in around 750 stores. Excluding this impact, Home like-for-like
rolled out across 30 stores.
sales grew by 3.3%, primarily driven by the launch of our F&F Home range.
We have now gained market share in ROI for 37 consecutive four-week periods, taking our share to
Large store like-for-like sales grew by 4.1%, driven by further investment into our promotional
23.9% at the end of the year, up +29bps year-on-year. Clubcard sales penetration stepped up by a
offer over key seasonal events in addition to investments in service and delivering market-leading
further 2ppts year-on-year to 87%.
availability. These investments resulted in our highest customer net promoter score in five years.
Convenience like-for-like sales, which includes our One Stop stores, declined by (0.2)%. Tesco Express BOOKER – Growth across core catering and retail following strong
like-for-like sales were broadly flat, with a particularly strong performance in fresh food offset by the performance last year:
impact of the ongoing decline in the tobacco market. Tesco Express gained +138bps of market share,
supported by a 1.7ppts contribution to sales growth from net new store openings. Sales
£m LFL
Online sales grew by 10.2%, including a c.3ppts contribution from Tesco Whoosh. Sales growth was
Core retail 3,234 0.9%
primarily driven by an increase in average online orders per week which were up 10.8% year-on-year
to 1.3 million, with customer satisfaction also increasing year-on-year. Tesco Whoosh, our rapid Core catering* 2,621 2.1%
delivery service, saw sales almost double in the year, with a further improvement in customer Tobacco 1,694 (8.8)%
satisfaction and growth in average basket size. Tesco Whoosh is now available in over 1,500 stores, Best Food Logistics 1,441 (5.1)%
including 42 large stores. Total Booker 8,990 (1.8)%
Online performance FY 24/25 YoY change * Includes sales to small businesses and sales from Venus Wine and Spirit Merchants PLC, which was acquired in June 2024.
Venus is excluded from LFL growth.
Sales inc. VAT £6.8bn 10.2%
Overall like-for-like sales declined by (1.8)%, reflecting the continuing decline in the tobacco market
Orders per week 1.33m 10.8%
and weakness in parts of the fast-food market serviced by Best Food Logistics, while the core retail
Basket size (excluding Whoosh) £109 3.6%
and catering businesses grew despite a challenging market backdrop.
Online % of UK total sales 13.5% 0.6ppts
Core retail like-for-like sales increased by 0.9% year-on-year, growing ahead of the market, supported
by a further 566 net new retail partners in the year. While the independent convenience sector is
In June, we launched Tesco Marketplace, offering customers an even broader range of products online
seeing some trading softness, Booker’s symbol brands performed strongly, supported by our targeted
through third-party sellers. We are now offering over 400,000 products and have built a pipeline of
promotional plans and improvements in availability. Booker retail customer satisfaction continued to
further sellers to join the platform, with new category launches planned for later in FY 25/26. We are
improve, with gains year-on-year.
encouraged with customer satisfaction scores, and trading through Black Friday was particularly
successful. Our priority has been laying the foundations for growth, adding for instance the capability Core catering like-for-like sales increased by 2.1%, driven by stronger volumes, as customers
to offer customers Clubcard Prices when they shop on Tesco Marketplace. responded well to our value campaigns throughout the year, with prices now locked on over 700
products until June 2025. Customer satisfaction levels remained high, growing year-on-year, and
In November, we completed the disposal of our Banking operations and started our associated strategic
availability improved even further to c.98% by the end of the year.
partnership with Barclays. The exclusive 10-year partnership provides customers access to Tesco-
branded banking products and services, combining Tesco’s market-leading brand, physical and digital In June 2024, we acquired Venus Wine and Spirit Merchants PLC, a specialist wine and spirits
reach and relentless customer focus with Barclays’ deep financial services capabilities and expertise in merchant, offering our on-trade catering customers an even larger selection of spirits, wines, lagers,
commercial partnerships. We retained all the existing insurance and money services activities, including ciders and ales. The integration of Venus is progressing well, and we are continuing to expand the
ATMs, travel money and gift cards. In the year, sales from Insurance and Money Services grew by c.30%, customer base, with strong progress towards increasing its geographic presence.
primarily driven by strong growth in the insurance business.
ROI – Ongoing volume growth driving strong market share gains:
Like-for-like sales grew by 4.6% for the full year, driven by volume growth supported by our continued
roll out of our ‘fresh first’ store refresh programme and our ongoing investments in product quality
and innovation, which has been recognised with 21 gold medals at the Blas na hÉireann (‘Taste of
Ireland’) awards. Total sales grew by 5.6% at constant rates, including a 1.0ppts contribution from
new stores, driven by the opening of 12 new stores in the year.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 29 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 27.
Financial review continued
CENTRAL EUROPE – Improved category mix and volume growth driving sales Adjusting items are excluded from our adjusted operating profit performance by virtue of their size
momentum and profit growth: and nature, to provide a helpful perspective of the year-on-year performance of the Group’s ongoing
business. Total adjusting items in operating profit (from continuing operations) resulted in a net charge
Like-for-like sales grew by 2.2%, as improved category mix and volumes contributed to positive growth,
of £(417)m, compared to £(8)m in the prior year.
with market share trajectory improving. Food like-for-like sales grew by 2.4% year-on-year, including
c.4% growth in Fresh volumes. Customer satisfaction scores improved in Central Europe, as customers In the current year, there was a non-cash net impairment charge on non-current assets of £(286)m,
responded well to our product innovation and targeted value investments, with on average c.650 primarily reflecting an increase in discount rates, as a result of higher government bond rates. This
products added to our Low Price Guarantee per market. Our Finest range performed well, with compares to a £28m non-cash net impairment release in the prior year.
year-on-year volume growth of over 23%.
We continue to present amortisation of acquired intangible assets, principally relating to the merger
Non-food like-for-like sales grew by 0.6%, with particularly strong performance over the seasonal with Booker, as an adjusting item. In the current year, amortisation of acquired intangible assets was
Christmas period. £(76)m, compared to £(74)m in the prior year.
Central Europe adjusted operating profit was £112m, an increase of 28.9% year-on-year at constant We recognised a £(43)m restructuring charge in the current year, compared to a £(50)m charge in the
rates, primarily driven by volume growth and further progress in our Save to invest programme. prior year relating to our Save to invest programme.
Discontinued operations: Adjusting items in discontinued operations of £(65)m primarily relates to the fair value remeasurement
of assets of the disposal group, associated with the sale of our Banking operations to Barclays. In the
In February 2024, we agreed to sell our Banking operations, comprising personal loans, credit cards
prior year, we recognised a post-tax loss of £(628)m, related to the disposal of our Banking operations.
and customer deposits and associated operational capabilities. In November 2024, we completed the
Further detail on discontinued operations can be found in Note 8 starting on page 155.
disposal to Barclays for gross cash proceeds of £614m. In combination with further net cash released
after the settlement of certain regulatory capital amounts and net of transaction costs, this provides Adjusting items in net finance costs and tax are set out below. Further detail on adjusting items
£700m of cash realised from the disposal which will be returned to shareholders through share can be found in Note 5, starting on page 151.
buybacks in FY 25/26.
The performance of our Banking operations has been presented as a discontinued operation and has Net finance costs:
been excluded from our headline performance measures. Profit after tax from discontinued operations
was £26m which includes adjusting items of £(65)m primarily relating to the fair value remeasurement of FY 24/25 FY 23/24
assets of the disposal group, associated with the sale of our Banking operations to Barclays. On a continuing operations basis £m £m
Net interest costs (157) (179)
Adjusting items:
Net finance expenses from insurance contracts (9) (6)
Interest expense on lease liabilities (370) (373)
FY 24/25 FY 23/24 Adjusted net finance costs (536) (558)
£m £m Fair value remeasurements of financial instruments 76 38
Net impairment (charge)/release on non-current assets (286) 28
Net pension finance costs (32) (18)
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets (76) (74)
Adjusting items in net finance costs 44 20
Save to invest restructuring provisions (43) (50)
Net finance costs (492) (538)
Property transactions 2 75
Adjusted net finance costs were £(536)m, £22m lower year-on-year mainly due to lower net interest
Other* (14) 13
costs on medium term notes as a result of refinancing activities.
Total adjusting items included within operating profit (417) (8)
Within adjusting items, fair value remeasurements of financial instruments led to a credit of £76m,
Net finance income 44 20
compared to a £38m credit in the prior year, driven by non-cash mark-to-market movements on
Taxation 79 68
certain derivative financial instruments that are not hedge accounted and a non-cash gain from a
Total adjusting items included within profit after tax from continuing liability management transaction.
operations (294) 80
Net pension finance costs increased by £(14)m, reflecting a higher opening pension deficit in FY 24/25
Adjusting items included within discontinued operations (65) (628)
and a higher discount rate at the start of FY 24/25 than the start of FY 23/24.
Total adjusting items (including discontinued operations) (359) (548)
We expect a similar level of adjusted net finance costs for FY 25/26. Further detail on finance income
* Other comprises Banking operations disposal costs. In the prior year, other includes a £12m profit on disposal of Booker’s
and costs can be found in Note 6 on page 152, as well as further detail on the adjusting items in
Ritter-Courivaud Limited subsidiary.
Note 5, starting on page 151.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 30 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 28.
Financial review continued
Group tax: Summary of Net debt:
FY 24/25 FY 23/24 Feb-25 Feb-24* Movement
On a continuing operations basis £m £m £m £m £m
Tax on adjusted profit (690) (593) Net debt before lease liabilities (1,738) (2,062) 324
Tax on adjusting items 79 68 Lease liabilities (7,716) (7,622) (94)
Tax on profit (611) (525) Net debt (9,454) (9,684) 230
Tax on adjusted Group profit was £(690)m, £(97)m higher than last year, primarily due to higher profit
Net debt/EBITDA 2.0x 2.2x
and the full year impact of the increase in the UK corporation tax rate from 19% to 25%, effective from
1 April 2023. The effective tax rate on adjusted Group profit was 26.7% (FY 23/24: 26.0%), higher than * The Net debt APM has been amended to include Insurance and Money Services, with the prior year presented on a consistent
basis. The impact on the prior year is to reduce Net debt by £80m.
the current UK statutory rate of 25%, primarily due to the depreciation of assets which do not qualify
for tax relief. We expect our FY 25/26 effective tax rate to remain around 27%. Net debt was £(9,454)m, a decrease of £230m year-on-year, predominantly driven by strong free cash
flow generation of £1,750m and gross proceeds from Barclays of £614m related to the disposal of our
The current year £79m adjusting credit in tax primarily relates to deferred tax on impairment charges Banking operations. This exceeded the cash outflows relating to our ongoing share buyback
on qualifying assets. The prior year £68m adjusting tax credit primarily relates to impairment charges programme of £(1,016)m and dividend payments of £(864)m.
on qualifying assets, as well as a final settlement related to our exit from the Gain Land Associate in
China, in February 2020. Lease liabilities of £(7,716)m were £(94)m higher year-on-year, mainly driven by the opening of a new
distribution centre and the leasing back of stores following the sale of mall properties in Central
Earnings per share: Europe.
On a continuing operations basis FY 24/25 FY 23/24 YoY change Our Net debt/EBITDA ratio was 2.0 times at the end of the year, down from 2.2 times in the prior year,
partially driven by the receipt of cash proceeds from the sale of our Banking operations which we will
Adjusted diluted EPS 27.38p 23.41p 17.0%
return to shareholders in the coming year.
Statutory diluted EPS 23.13p 24.53p (5.7)%
Statutory basic EPS 23.41p 24.80p (5.6)% We had strong levels of liquidity at year-end, totalling £3.6bn, including cash, highly liquid short-term
deposits and money market investments. In addition, our £2.5bn committed revolving credit facility
On a total basis, including discontinued operations
remained undrawn and is in place until at least October 2027.
Statutory diluted EPS 23.51p 16.56p 42.0%
Fixed charge cover was 4.2 times at the end of the year (FY 23/24: 3.8 times), an improvement
Statutory basic EPS 23.79p 16.74p 42.1%
year-on-year, primarily due to an increase in EBITDA.
Adjusted diluted EPS was 27.38p, 17.0% higher year-on-year, due to an increase in Group adjusted Defined benefit pension schemes:
operating profit, the benefit of our ongoing share buyback programme and a reduction in net finance
costs, partially offset by an increase in tax. Feb-25 Feb-24 Movement
£m £m £m
Statutory diluted EPS was 23.13p, (5.7)% lower year-on-year, primarily driven by the £(286)m non-cash Defined benefit schemes in surplus 56 22 34
net impairment charge on non-current assets in the year, compared to a £28m impairment release in
Defined benefit schemes in deficit (307) (657) 350
the prior year.
Deferred tax asset/(liability) 71 162 (91)
On a total basis, including discontinued operations, statutory diluted EPS was 23.51p, 42.0% higher
Deficit in schemes at the end of the year (net of
year-on-year due to the effect of the remeasurement loss recognised last year related to the sale deferred tax) (180) (473) 293
of our Banking operations.
Net of tax, the net IAS 19 pension deficit has improved from £(473)m to £(180)m, principally reflecting
Dividend:
the impact of higher discount rates. The largest scheme is the main UK Tesco Pension Scheme. The
We propose to pay a final dividend of 9.45 pence per ordinary share, which combined with the interim
trustees of each pension scheme are also required to calculate the net surplus/deficit using Technical
dividend of 4.25 pence per ordinary share made in November 2024, takes the full year dividend to
Provisions and in accordance with relevant regulations and guidance issued by the appropriate
13.70 pence per ordinary share. The full year dividend is based on our dividend policy to pay a
regulator. On this basis, which is different to IAS 19, the main UK Tesco Pension Scheme continues to
progressive dividend, broadly targeting a 50% payout of adjusted earnings per share.
be in a funding surplus at the year end. The most recent completed triennial funding valuation of the
The proposed final dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 9 April 2025 and is subject to UK Tesco Pension Scheme was at 31 March 2022 and the next valuation, relating to the funding position
the approval of shareholders at this year’s Annual General Meeting. The final dividend will be paid on of the scheme as at 31 March 2025, will be completed during FY 25/26.
27 June 2025 to shareholders who are on the register of members at close of business on 16 May 2025
(the Record Date). Shareholders may elect to reinvest their dividend in the dividend reinvestment plan
Further detail on post-employment benefits can be found in Note 29, starting on page 200.
(DRIP). The last date for receipt of DRIP elections and revocations will be 6 June 2025.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 31 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 29.
Financial review continued
Summary free cash flow: We delivered another strong year of cash generation, with free cash flow of £1,750m. This is £(313)m
lower year-on-year, primarily due to higher trade working capital balances in the prior year due to
The following table reconciles Group adjusted operating profit to free cash flow. Further details are
elevated levels of input cost inflation.
included in the reconciliation of cash flow measures, starting on page 233.
There was a working capital outflow of £(45)m this year. We continue to tightly manage our working
FY 24/25 FY 23/24 capital balances, with the outflow this year reflecting lower trade balances in fuel, driven by fuel
On a continuing operations basis £m £m price deflation.
Group adjusted operating profit 3,128 2,829
Cash capital expenditure was £(1,392)m, £(103)m higher than last year driven by incremental
Less: Insurance and Money Services adjusted operating (profit)/loss (155) (69)
investments in expanding our digital platforms, automating our distribution network and refreshing
Retail adjusted operating profit 2,973 2,760
our UK store estate.
Add back: Depreciation and amortisation 1,680 1,602
Net interest paid was £60m lower year-on-year, principally driven by the impact of the timing of
Other reconciling items 69 82
refinancing activities in the prior year.
Pensions (30) (29)
Tax paid was £(141)m higher year-on-year, mainly due to no longer benefiting from tax relief related to
(Increase)/decrease in working capital (45) 418
the one-off pension contribution made in 2021, with the balance fully utilised by the end of the prior
Cash generated from operations before adjusting items 4,647 4,833 year, and the impact of higher adjusted operating profit year-on-year. These increases in cash tax paid
Cash capex (1,392) (1,289) were partially offset by a tax deduction arising on the disposal of our Banking operations.
Net interest (500) (560)
Within the memo lines shown, the net £(61)m acquisitions and disposals outflow primarily relates
– Interest related to Net debt before lease liabilities (123) (188) to Booker’s acquisition of Venus Wine and Spirit Merchants PLC. The £(93)m net outflow relating
– Interest related to lease liabilities (377) (372) to property transactions includes the buyback of four supermarkets in the UK, partially offset by
Tax paid (355) (214) proceeds generated from the sale of mall properties in Central Europe. The cash impact of adjusting
Dividends received 2 9 items of £(55)m relates to operational restructuring changes as part of our Save to invest programme,
which were provided for at the end of the prior financial year.
Repayment of capital element of obligations under leases (598) (623)
Own shares purchased for share schemes (54) (93)
Free cash flow 1,750 2,063
Memo (not included in free cash flow definition):
– Special dividend received from Tesco Bank - 250
– Net acquisitions and disposals* (61) (2)
– P roperty buybacks, store purchases and associated refits, and
disposal proceeds (93) (66)
– Cash impact of adjusting items (55) (98)
* Excluding proceeds from the disposal of the Group’s Banking operations. Refer to Note 8, starting on page 155, for further details.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 32 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 30.
Financial review continued
Capital expenditure and space:
UK & ROI Central Europe Group
FY 24/25 FY 23/242 FY 24/25 FY 23/24 FY 24/25 FY 23/24
Capex £1,347m £1,201m £110m £113m £1,457m £1,314m
Openings (k sq ft) 311 366 84 87 395 453
Closures (k sq ft) (98) (204) (45) (22) (143) (226)
Repurposed (k sq ft)1 (235) - (145) (342) (380) (342)
Net space change (k sq ft) (22) 162 (106) (277) (128) (115)
Space in the above table is defined as net space in store adjusted to exclude checkouts, space behind checkouts, customer service desks and customer toilets. The data above excludes space relating to franchise stores. A full breakdown of space by segment is included
in the supplementary information on pages 226 to 227.
1. Repurposed space relates to optimising selling space, such as through the addition of retail partners.
2. Includes £13m relating to the Banking operations disposal group, incurred prior to being classified as held for sale.
Capital expenditure shown in the table above reflects expenditure on ongoing business activities across the Group, excluding property buybacks and other store purchases and their associated refit costs.
We have been pleased with the results of our continued investment in our store estate, including refreshing a total of 463 stores and opening two superstores, 55 Tesco Express stores and seven One Stop
stores in the UK. In ROI, we opened six new large stores and six Tesco Express stores. In Central Europe, we opened 14 new stores.
Our total capital expenditure for the year was £1,457m, £143m higher year-on-year. Our capital expenditure for the year includes investing in our core assets, as well as investing in growth, such as our online
customer proposition, and delivering efficiencies across our operations, including further automation within our distribution and fulfilment centres. We continue to see attractive opportunities to commit
capital to high-returning investments, and expect a similar level of capital investment in FY 25/26.
Statutory capital expenditure for the year was £1.6bn.
Further details of current space can be found in the supplementary information on pages 226 to 227.
Property:
UK & ROI Central Europe Group
Feb-25 Feb-24 Feb-25 Feb-24 Feb-25 Feb-24
Property1 – fully owned
– Estimated market value £15.4bn £15.1bn £1.6bn £1.8bn £17.0bn £16.9bn
– Net book value £15.3bn £15.2bn £1.3bn £1.5bn £16.6bn £16.7bn
% store selling space owned 58% 58% 64% 68% 59% 60%
% property owned by value2 60% 59% 55% 65% 60% 60%
1. Stores, malls, investment property, offices, distribution centres, fixtures and fittings and work-in-progress. Excludes joint ventures.
2. Excludes fixtures and fittings.
The estimated market value of our fully owned property as at the year-end increased by £0.1bn to £17.0bn. In the UK & ROI, we saw an increase of £0.3bn due to a combination of our refit and remodelling
programmes. In Central Europe, we saw a decrease of £0.2bn, predominantly reflecting the sale of malls. The market value represents a surplus of £0.4bn over the net book value.
Our Group store selling space ownership percentage was 59%, marginally down year-on-year driven by the sale of malls in Central Europe, which more than offset property buybacks in UK & ROI.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 33 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 31.
SFuinsatanicniaabl irlietyview continued
Making a positive…
Impa t.
Since 2015 we’ve reduced Group We aim to be carbon neutral across We’ve built sustainability into our purpose, strategy and business
Scope 1 and 2 emissions by our own operations by
plans. We know that our business depends on the world around us.
65% 2035 As the UK’s leading food retailer, we know we can make a big difference.
Our commitment to operating in a responsible and sustainable way
reflects our beliefs and values.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 34 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 32.
Sustainability
Planet. Our plan is centred on our commitment to Improve our products Decarbonising transport
reaching net zero across our full value chain by
Covering the production of all our products, Transport comprises around 47% of our
2050, validated in line with the Science-Based
from raw material extraction and agriculture to operational (Scope 1 and 2) emissions. We’re
Targets Initiative’s (SBTi) pathway for limiting
logistics and manufacturing, this pillar comprises working to switch all our fleets to low-carbon
We recognise we have a global warming to no more than 1.5°C average the largest emissions hotspots across our value alternatives by 2035, where possible, based
above pre-industrial levels, and the economic
responsibility to play our part chain, at around 50%. on available market solutions.
longevity of our business relies on the health,
to address the impact the food resilience, and adaptation of our supply chains. Our British farmers play a pivotal stewardship As we continue to decarbonise our transport
role when it comes to our natural environment network, we’ve introduced a further 150 electric
system has on climate and nature, Our stakeholders continue to expect our and will play a key part in helping us reach our home delivery vans to our Tesco fleet in the UK
as part of our core purpose to business to demonstrate urgent, credible climate and nature goals. We continued to this year. We also launched our 10th rail service,
serve our customers, communities leadership and collaboration across the food strengthen our relationships with our farmers serving the North West of England. We’re now
industry to achieve net zero. We’ve made and suppliers, through the launch of a new moving a total of 300 million cases of goods
and planet a little better every day. good progress in a number of areas this year Tesco Sustainable Farming Group for pigs. a year across the country by the Tesco rail
but continue to call for the right regulatory The group benefit from a combination of cost network rather than by lorry.
Our planet plan brings together our key areas frameworks from governments across our of production and market price+ incentives,
of activity under six pillars and reflects markets in order to help us drive the giving producers greater stability in pricing,
the interdependencies of the food system transformational change needed. and help to support longer term investment. Read more in our Sustainability Report.
and the natural environment.
We also launched a groundbreaking sustainability
This includes work to improve the sourcing The pillars of our planet plan partnership with our milk suppliers, Arla and Reduce store emissions
of our products, how we run our stores and Müller UK and Ireland, with the aim of uniting
transport, helping our customers eat more the dairy industry to accelerate reduction We continue to work towards reaching our goal
healthily, how we’re tackling waste across Improve our products of emissions, protecting and restoring nature of carbon neutral operations by 2035. We’re
the food value chain, and addressing some Reduce the environmental and commit to higher animal welfare standards. now using the latest AI technology to identify
impact of the things we sell and repurpose heat from refrigeration systems
of the nature and biodiversity impacts the
Informed by feedback from over 300 farmers, to lower our energy use and saving energy
food system has at a landscape level.
our Greenprint for UK Farming report set out by installing doors on fridges in more than
Decarbonising transport a number of recommendations to government 100 of our large stores.
Reduce emissions created and the wider industry to secure a sustainable
when we move our products future for the sector. We committed to We’ve also continued our programme of securing
more directly sourced renewable electricity.
supporting the industry to implement clearer
In October 2024, we signed a new power
Reduce store emissions sustainability requirements and standards, and
purchase agreement with Cleve Hill Solar Park
Minimise emissions from to work with farmers to simplify and standardise
in Kent. The site will produce enough solar energy
our stores and centres data collection. We’ve also launched two low
to power the equivalent of 144 large stores every
carbon concept farms in our UK supply chain
year – up to a tenth of our total electricity
to trial new technologies and share learnings to
Support sustainable scale the adoption of sustainability innovations. demand in the UK.
consumption We continue to work with our global supply base A further deal with Stranoch windfarm in Scotland
Help customers switch to
to ensure all our global produce suppliers that will add green electricity for the equivalent of 80
healthier, more sustainable food
supply into the UK are LEAF Marque Certified average-sized supermarkets when it is scheduled
by the end of 2025. to become operational in 2026.
Eliminate waste
Tackling deforestation in animal feed supply Support sustainable consumption
Reduce food waste and packaging
chains remains a key priority in this pillar, and
from production through to our It’s essential we integrate health and sustainability
we continue to work on the implementation
customers’ homes on this journey. Our goal is to make Tesco the
of the delayed EU Regulation on Deforestation-
easiest place for customers to find healthy,
free Products (EUDR), starting with our
affordable, and sustainable food. This involves
Protect nature EU-based businesses.
encouraging customers to consume more
Work with nature to restore
seasonal fruits, vegetables, and alternative
habitats, protect water and
plant-based proteins such as legumes and cereals.
increase biodiversity
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 35 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 33.
Sustainability continued
In 2021, we set a target to increase the We’ve expanded our Nature Programme with the
Spotlight on:
proportion of healthy products sold to 65% launch of two new partnerships to help protect
of total UK and ROI sales by the end of 2025. and restore nature in key UK sourcing regions.
We’ve made good progress, with 64% of Our partnership with Forestry England will
P lanet.
products now meeting the UK Government’s contribute to restoring nature in Neroche,
Nutrient Profile Model (NPM). Somerset, a key sourcing region for Tesco, by
increasing the diversity and abundance of wildlife
Eliminate waste
across the area and provide valuable insight into
This pillar addresses both food waste and how large-scale nature restoration can aid
packaging, emphasising the need to minimise sustainable food production.
both for a sustainable future. We aim to reduce
Our partnership with the Royal Society for the
food loss across the entire supply chain by 50%
Protection of Birds (RSPB) will provide dedicated UK Agriculture
by 2030. Our food waste hierarchy guides our
conservation and habitat advisory support
plans, covering end-to-end food waste reduction,
to farmers in Tesco’s supply chain. Nature- As the biggest customer of UK agriculture, bringing our customers healthy,
including increasing food redistribution both
friendly farming will help boost farmland affordable and sustainable food wouldn’t be possible without our farmers
through our charity partners and also colleagues.
resilience to climate change, provide improved and producers.
We’ve partnered with FareShare since 2012 to protection against extreme weather, and
In the last year alone, we’ve seen unprecedented flooding and unpredictable
redistribute surplus food from our stores and enhance biodiversity.
weather patterns disrupt the typical farming calendar, while inflation has put
distribution centres, preventing food waste.
pressure on the price of inputs, including energy, fertiliser and animal feed.
This year, we hit a milestone by redistributing
the equivalent of over 250 million meals to If we’re to deliver on our climate and nature goals, we need to support the
charities nationwide. sector, so we asked our farmers where they need support. More than 300
farmers shared their experiences and views at agricultural shows across the
Following challenges in our food waste
country, as well as at an in-depth roundtable discussion with farmers across
operations in 2023/24, we worked with
our arable, livestock and fresh produce supply chains.
engineering company RenEco to establish a new
facility to turn surplus food into animal feed.
The site in Northamptonshire will un-pack food A Greenprint for UK Farming report
and transform it into a pulp or crumb to feed 72%
Informed by these discussions, in January 2025, we
to animals. The focus of the operation will be
published our Greenprint report for UK farming, alongside
on bakery and fresh produce. Through an of farmers we surveyed want to
our partners at Harper Adams University’s School of
additional, separate process, meat and fish do more to make their farms
Sustainable Food and Farming.
surplus will also be used in household pet food. environmentally friendly.
Our report sets out recommendations across several key
We’re keeping up momentum on our drive to
areas, including a long-term vision for the sector, the need
reduce plastic use, removing more than two
for government to better support UK farmers through a
billion pieces of plastic from our stores and supply
long-term land use and food security strategy; improved
chain, including moving our Own Brand oats and
funding for all stages of innovation that aids sustainability;
pasta ranges from plastic to paper packaging.
and setting common environmental standards which
Protect nature farmers can regularly measure against to help prioritise
investment in the most effective and sustainable
The food system relies on healthy soils, clean
farming techniques.
freshwater, and thriving pollinator populations.
We are collaborating with our suppliers to adopt At the same time, we committed to continue to support the
a landscape-based approach, transforming our industry to implement clearer sustainability requirements
supply chains holistically to achieve lasting and standards; working with farmers to simplify and
environmental benefits for both climate standardise data collection; and exploring new models and
and nature. incentives that could help farmers manage investment risk.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 36 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 34.
Sustainability continued
Nature. Our work includes action in our supply Taskforce on Nature-related
chains to reduce the impact key products Financial Disclosures (TNFD)
and commodities have on our natural world, Building on our initial work
The TNFD framework aims to provide a framework
as well as landscape-level efforts to increase
for organisations to report on risks from to understand our nature-
As a food retailer, we rely on biodiversity, manage water resources
biodiversity loss and ecosystem degradation.
healthy soils, clean, fresh water responsibly and avoid polluting waterways, related risks, impacts and
protect natural habitats including peatland The information below is designed to show our
and thriving pollinator populations and improve soil health. progress towards alignment with the framework, dependencies, and to further
to help produce our food. Given the interconnectedness between the setting out our work so far on nature-related refine our strategy in this area,
governance, strategy, risk and impact
However, the global food system climate and nature crises, we continue to strive
management, and metrics and targets. It also we have continued our work
for a nature-led transition to net zero. Our
is one of the leading contributors outlines the steps we have taken this year to
planet plan reflects this, with a pillar of work on mapping our direct
complete the LEAP (locate, evaluate, assess
to nature and biodiversity loss. focused on protecting and restoring nature.
and prepare) process, pioneered by TNFD. operations and our most
It’s vital we play our part in
Governance at-risk supply chains through
protecting nature in at-risk
We have a comprehensive climate governance
landscapes including forests, framework encompassing the Board, its the TNFD’s LEAP assessment.
freshwater catchments and associated Committees, and the Executive
Committee. This governance framework includes
marine environments.
all pillars of our planet plan, including the Protect
Nature pillar, and reflects our holistic approach
to achieving a nature-led net zero. key high-risk commodities. The ongoing analysis
will be used to inform our sourcing strategies and
See our Annual Report governance
direct our focus in nature restoration projects.
section starting on page 52.
We have continued to make progress on
protecting and restoring nature through the
Strategy
development of our Nature Programme which
The food system has a central role to play in focuses efforts on five key areas of action:
protecting and restoring nature. Building on our protecting nature in key sourcing landscapes,
initial work to understand our nature-related both in the UK and abroad; scaling industry
risks, impacts and dependencies, and to leading innovations to support biodiversity;
further refine our strategy in this area, we have implementing a nature plan across our own
continued our work on mapping our direct estate and operations; continuing to lead the
operations and our most at risk supply chains industry on research into key challenges facing
through the TNFD’s LEAP assessment. Learning nature and the food system; and playing a
from the two TNFD pilot projects in our soy and leading role in cross sector engagement.
palm oil supply chains from last year, the scope
Zero of our LEAP assessment has evolved to include Risks and impacts
more of our high-risk commodities material to We will continue to act on recommendations
We continue to strive for the Science Based Targets Network’s (SBTN) from the TNFD LEAP process including integrating
a nature-led transition to net High Impact Commodity List, and most nature-related risks and opportunities into
zero. Our planet plan reflects meaningful to our business. existing risk management processes.
this, with a pillar of work Using the initial outputs of the LEAP process and This will include leveraging enhanced due
focused on protecting the TNFD pilot projects, we are continuing to diligence programmes to manage nature loss
and restoring nature. map our supply chains across key sourcing and impacts on communities; and implementing
regions to gain a more comprehensive view targeted training and audit programmes for
of the nature-related impacts, risks and environmental targets for commodities and
opportunities in our supply chain beyond our locations where biodiversity impact is high.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 37 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 35.
Sustainability continued
Spotlight on:
Restore.
Nature programme
We launched our nature programme in November 2023,
with the ambition to protect and restore nature across our
supply chains and key sourcing landscapes, alongside our
suppliers and partners. This year, we launched a
Metrics and targets partnership with Forestry England which will contribute to
For our key forest risk commodities such as soy restoring nature in Neroche, Somerset, by increasing the
and palm, we are committed to sourcing only diversity and abundance of wildlife across the area, while
from verified zero deforestation and conversion providing valuable insight into how large-scale nature
free areas by the end of 2025. restoration can aid sustainable food production.
We continue to provide significant multi-year We also launched a partnership with the RSPB which will
funding for vital water stewardship work across provide dedicated conservation and habitat advisory
the UK, alongside organisations like the Wye and support to farmers in our supply chain in East Anglia, a key
Usk Foundation and Norfolk Rivers Trust. We sourcing region for us. Habitat transformation can improve
have encouraged key suppliers to match our biodiversity, boost productivity, and provide improved
ambition on achieving Waste and Resources protection against extreme weather caused by climate
Action Programme’s (WRAP) Courtauld 2030 change, such as drought and flooding. The project will
Water Roadmap, which aims to source 50% enable the scaling-up of existing RSPB programmes to
of the UK’s fresh food and drink from areas of support biodiversity and address the impact of agriculture
sustainable water management by 2030. This on nature.
funding also supports nature-related outcomes
in catchments across Spain, Kenya, South Africa,
and Ica in Peru.
We continue to provide significant In 2023
multi-year funding for vital water
we launched our nature
stewardship work across the UK, programme with the ambition
to protect and restore nature
alongside organisations like the across our supply chains and
key sourcing landscapes.
Wye and Usk Foundation and
Norfolk Rivers Trust.

--- PAGE 38 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 36.
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures
TCFD.
TCFD content finder Climate-related financial disclosures Governance Strategy
We have disclosed a TCFD statement since We have a comprehensive climate governance We understand that our best strategy to mitigate
Governance 2019 and have now met the full disclosure framework encompassing the Board, its our main climate risks is to become a net zero
requirement for four years consecutively. This associated Committees and the Executive business across the whole Group, entailing fast,
Board oversight of climate risks and
year, we have integrated the TCFD content Committee. This governance framework large-scale, and effective decarbonisation of our
opportunities pages 61 to 63 and 77
across the Annual Report (see the TCFD content includes all pillars of our planet plan, reflecting operations and our supply chain. In 2023 we
finder on the left of this page), providing further our holistic approach to becoming a net zero became one of the first companies globally to
Management’s role in assessing and
detail on the actions underpinning our planet business. In addition to climate-related issues, gain SBTi validation for our net zero targets on
managing climate-related risks and
plan and work to build a resilient supply chain. the governance framework also encompasses all greenhouse gas emissions, including those
opportunities page 43
Our sustainability efforts continue to focus on food waste, sustainable agriculture, nature, originating from forests, land and agriculture
Strategy our ability to create and preserve long-term healthy sustainable diets and packaging. (FLAG) emissions, aligned with a 1.5°C pathway.
value for our customers, colleagues, Our targets include stretching interim
Climate-related risks and opportunities shareholders, the planet and the communities Further information on climate governance commitments to reduce absolute Scope 1 and 2
identified over the short, medium and we serve. can be found on pages 43, 61 to 63 and 77. emissions from our own operations by 85% by
long-term and their impact on Tesco’s
2030 from a 2015/16 baseline year, and a
businesses, strategy and financial
voluntary target to achieve net zero on Scopes 1
planning pages 48 and 49
and 2 by 2035, 15 years ahead of our SBTi
Strategic resilience taking into account Governance validated target. To date, we have reduced our
different climate-related scenarios Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 65% vs our 2015/16
pages 48 and 49 baseline. On Scope 3, our target includes a 55%
reduction by 2032 from a 2019/20 baseline on
Risk management Executive Committee emissions from energy and industrial sources,
and absolute Scope 3 emissions from FLAG
Processes for identifying, assessing and Board-level
emissions by 39% by 2032 from a 2019/20
managing climate-related risks page 64 strategic oversight
baseline year. Ultimately, we will reach net zero
Audit Sustainability across all scopes by 2050 via a reduction of
How they are integrated into the
organisation’s overall risk management Committee Committee 72% of FLAG emissions, and 90% on Scope 3
non-FLAG emissions. Residual emissions will be
pages 41 and 81
neutralised in line with the SBTi guidance.
Metrics and targets According to the strategic and rounded
approach proposed in the Transition Plan
Climate-related metrics and targets Planet committee Taskforce framework, businesses should not only
page 38
focus on their own net zero targets, they should
Management-level
also work on building adaptation and resilience
implementation
Greenhouse gas emissions and to the effects of climate change, and drive
related risks page 39 and compliance Group operational industry system change.
decarbonisation Planet steering ESG reporting and
Content elsewhere in the Annual Report steering group group (Scope 3) disclosure group
T
that relates to TCFD is indicated with (Scope 1 & 2)
this icon
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 39 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 37.
TCFD continued
Our planet agenda categorises work across emissions, we are switching away from our – We supported with Soil Association Exchange
six different areas and includes a number of depreciated HFC refrigerant systems to and other businesses in the arable supply
initiatives as we work towards the targets recovered CO systems. In the UK, 137 stores chain, to launch the Exchange Market. This
2
validated by the SBTi. Pages 32 and 33 describe were transitioned to CO systems in 2024/25. initiative will reward British farmers for
2
the planet plan in detail. Below is an overview of To replace gas boilers, we are trialling air source reducing emissions in arable agriculture.
the main decarbonisation initiatives within the heat pumps and heat reclaim systems across – We also announced the launch of two
Our performance
six pillars of our planet plan, and progress to date. the UK, ROI and Central Europe. In the UK, gas low-carbon farms to trial solutions and
against our targets boilers were transitioned to heat pumps in bridge the gap between the net zero
While our Scope 1 and 2 emissions may represent
this year is: 16 stores in 2024/25. research and farms.
a small proportion of our footprint, it is the
65% area over which we have full control and are Scope 3 represents over 98% of our Group Deforestation and conversion in animal feed
therefore, with the right planning and capital emissions and we are therefore focused on how supply chains is a significant source of emissions
allocation, able to deliver at pace. we can drive and advocate for change to deliver associated with sourcing our products. We will
emissions reduction in Scope 1 net zero and build resilience along our value chain. apply the upcoming EU due diligence legislation
and 2 versus 2015/16 baseline Decarbonise transport across the Group to obtain the transparency
Transport comprises around 47% of our Improve our products we need to verify our supply chains as
100% operational (Scope 1 and 2) emissions. That Agriculture makes up around 39% (FLAG deforestation-free. Simultaneously, we are
is why we are working to switch all our fleets to emissions as defined by the SBTi) of our whole working towards our voluntary target as a
low-carbon alternatives by 2035 where possible footprint, making it the single biggest contributor signatory to the UK Soy Manifesto which goes
of electricity procured from based on available market solutions. As part of to our end-to-end value chain emissions. beyond legislation to exclude conversion from
renewable sources our EV100 pledge, we have now deployed We are taking a whole landscape, systems-based our Own Brand supply chains by December 2025.
720 electric home delivery vans and are on track approach to supporting the sector’s transition,
Reaching net zero will require industry-wide
to be 100% electric by 2030. We’re also trialling using common standards to drive better
13% efforts and shared accountability right through
alternative fuels, such as Hydrogenated Vegetable land management practices and improve
the supply chain, so we are working with our
Oil (HVO), which has up to 90% less emissions the overall resilience and productivity of our
suppliers to help and encourage them to set
of dotcom delivery van fleet compared to diesel. In March 2025, we started agri-food systems.
their own climate targets. To support our
is now electric introducing HVO to all trucks based at our
For example, the following projects have strategic ambition, we have asked all UK
Thurrock distribution centre. Our Best Food
launched or continued to develop in the suppliers to set an SBTi-aligned net zero target
Logistics team have also partnered with clients
past 12 months: and to begin measuring and reporting their
to trial HVO.
carbon footprint. By the end of 2024, 194 of our
– We continue to collaborate and facilitate
Reduce store emissions shared learnings through our Sustainable key suppliers committed to net zero ambitions.
In 2020, we reached our RE100 commitment Farming Groups. We relaunched our Eliminate waste
to source 100% renewable electricity 10 years Sustainable Pig Group which supports our
Based on a 2022 survey on-farm food loss
ahead of our 2030 target. We designed our British farmers and suppliers by providing
represents over 25% of the UK’s total food
strategy to ensure we increasingly source our stable pricing and helping support longer-term
loss and waste. Tackling food waste can deliver
electricity directly via on-site generation and investment. Financial incentives and long-term
benefits across the supply chain, through more
onsite/offsite power purchase agreements contract options are an important element
efficient operations. We manage bumper crops
(PPAs), going beyond renewable energy of our sustainable farming groups, giving our
at certain times of the year through great value
certificates to help boost domestic renewable farmers the confidence to plan and invest
offers for our customers. For example, in 2024,
capacity in the markets we serve. We are in their businesses to become low carbon.
the sudden arrival of warmer weather after a
committed to onsite and offsite renewable – We launched the Future Dairy Partnership with
cold and wet spring and early summer start
generation supplying 60% of our electricity suppliers Arla and Müller UK & Ireland, and all
quickly brought on a crop flush of British
demand by 2030. We have announced multiple 400 Tesco Sustainable Dairy Group farmers,
strawberries. As a result of the surplus,
energy projects, helping us source green to accelerate sustainability measures in our
we bought an extra few hundred tonnes of
electricity directly from windfarms and solar dairy supply chain and beyond.
British-grown strawberries and put one kilo
parks across the UK. With the addition of Cleve – We continue to require all produce supplied to
punnets on sale for £4.50, and 400g punnets
Hill and Stranoch to our existing portfolio, the our UK stores to be LEAF Marque certified by
for the Clubcard price of £1.90. The regular
contracted output from our PPAs could cover 2025, and have 457 more overseas farms that
price for a 400g punnet at the time was £2.50.
41% of Tesco UK or 32% of Group expected FY 26 supply us certified compared to last year.
electricity demand. Addressing remaining store
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 40 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 38.
TCFD continued
Support sustainable consumption Risks and opportunities modelling Metrics and targets
One of the most impactful ways to reach a net We continue to use scenario modelling to help Metrics are used to identify opportunities for decarbonisation initiatives, including assessing progress
zero food system is to shift demand towards inform our understanding of the most material in decarbonising owned assets to understand where and when plans could be accelerated.
more sustainable choices, including diverse climate-related risks and opportunities. Our
In recognition of how critical sustainability is to our business success, our 2025 Performance Share
proteins, fruit and vegetables. Our approach approach is to combine the latest scientific
Plan (PSP) continues to incorporate sustainability metrics including those for Scope 1 and 2 emission
to healthy sustainable diets is well established, research with a wide range of internal
reduction. For more information on the sustainability metrics included within our PSP, see page 95.
seeking to make a better balanced diet easy, information including financial forecasts, climate
affordable and enjoyable through actions footprint, locations of Tesco operated facilities
Metric 2024/25 2023/24 Target
including product reformulation, promotions, and supply chain information.
pricing and strengthening of our plant-based and Emissions reduction in Scope 1 and 2 vs 65% 61% (85)% FY 2030, (90)% FY 2035
Five warming scenarios were modelled, covering
healthier ranges. We are committed to leading 2015/16 baseline
>4°C, 3°C, 2.5°C, 2°C and 1.5°C pathways. These
the plant-based market with a competitive and
pathways are based on the Intergovernmental EV100 – % of delivery van fleet that is 13% 11% 100% by 2030
compelling range of meat and dairy alternatives. Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Shared electric
We have an innovation programme across the
Socioeconomic Pathways and allow us to assess a
Group which looks to identify and scale future % of electricity from renewable sources 100% 100% 100%
wide range of climate possibilities. Our disclosure
healthy and sustainable ingredients and incorporates the 1.5°C pathway, aligned to the Proportion of generated volume from onsite 19% 11% 45% by December 2025 and
processes. This work includes global innovation Paris Agreement and our stated targets, and a 3°C and offsite PPAs, as a percentage of energy 60% by December 2030
and technology scanning, working with our pathway aligned to the current warming pathway consumption at a Group level
established supplier partners, business-to-
as reported by the IPCC, to ensure we cover the
business ingredient suppliers and new suppliers.
range of possible evolutions. We continue to To support the delivery of our decarbonisation plans, we continue to apply our internal carbon price
We offer great value fruit and veg across all our
quote the costs or financial value at risk as a (ICP). This will ensure that any strategic decisions such as potential new stores, business acquisitions
core value propositions, including Aldi Price
range, reflecting the uncertainties of climate- and divestments, or other decisions which would give rise to changes in the level or classification of
Match, Fresh 5 and Clubcard Prices. Our ‘better
related modelling and our resulting reliance on our emissions are identified at the earliest opportunity and mitigated accordingly. The price will be
baskets’ campaign is designed to help and
assumptions. Unless stated, our modelling reviewed annually and governed by the Group operational decarbonisation steering group.
inspire customers to make healthier and more
assumes just the downside risk, using our current
sustainable choices. We have learnt that Metrics supporting our Scope 3 target include:
product range, sourcing and asset base with no
customers respond to helpful nudges at point
mitigation or strategic response to minimise the
of purchase, so we have created better basket risk. The risk values disclosed are based on our Metric 2024/25 2023/24 Target
zones in our larger stores and online which
scenario modelling completed in 2024 and Percentage volume of palm oil physically 100% 100% 100% RSPO segregated by
signpost better choices.
therefore remain consistent with the prior year. certified to RSPO standard December 2025
Protect nature This reflects that there have been no material Percentage of soy used in animal feed 100% 100% 100% verified deforestation
changes in our business operations nor
It is important to consider the risks that climate that meets our UK Zero Deforestation Soy and conversion-free by
change and nature loss simultaneously pose to the underlying climate modelling assumptions. Transition Plan requirements December 2025
Future scenario modelling will be carried out in
to our supply chain resilience, as we recognise line with regulatory requirements. Percentage of paper/wood products 100% 100% 100%
the interconnectedness between nature and certified to FSC, PEFC or from a recycled
climate. Our work involves six focus areas scheme
Further information about our principal
identified through Taskforce on Nature-related
risks and uncertainties, including our TCFD Percentage weight of all Own Brand 87% 86% Our packaging will be fully
Financial Disclosures (TNFD) and the Science
risks and opportunities, can be found on packaging that is recyclable: recyclable by 2025
Based Targets for Nature (SBTN) frameworks:
pages 40 to 49. (i) at kerbside
protecting and restoring habitats, protecting
species, supporting sustainable freshwater use, (ii) additionally at UK collection points 99% N/A
preventing freshwater pollution, improving soil including large supermarkets
health and improving air quality.
Details of the methodologies for the above metrics and further information on our progress against
these targets can be found at www.tescoplc.com/sustainabilityreport2025. We continue to review
Find out more about the work we are
our targets and metrics and focus on disclosing recognised cross-industry metrics where these align
doing to protect nature on page 34.
to the risks and opportunities we identify.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 41 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 39.
TCFD continued
Next steps Greenhouse gas emissions and energy consumption*
On Scope 1 and 2 we plan to continue rolling out efficiency measures like installing doors on fridges; low
Base year
carbon asset replacement for refrigeration; and heat pump installations in FY 25/26. We will introduce 2024/25 2023/24 2022/23 2015/16
HVO and explore bio-CNG in our largest trucks as interim solutions to reduce emissions as quickly as
possible on the way to net zero. We also continue to expand our Dotcom fleet electrification. On Scope 3, Scope 1 (tonnes of CO 2 e) 802,425 ◊ 902,830 1,039,346 1,240,871
we are working to improve our emissions reporting. We have identified our top suppliers by emissions and Scope 2(a) Market-based method (tonnes of CO 2 e) 5,497 ◊ 6,259 7,796 1,095,671
will continue to support and accelerate their decarbonisation transition. We are focusing on establishing Location-based method (tonnes of CO 2 e) 582,298 ◊ 587,899 575,462 1,657,316
joint plans, collective sharing of insights, innovation and best practice, and regularly reviewing progress Total Scope 1 and 2 market-based (tonnes of CO 2 e) 807,921 ◊ 909,089 1,047,142 2,336,542
against key measures. Scope 1 and 2 carbon intensity (kg COe/sq.ft. of
2
stores and DCs) 9.25 ◊ 10.33 11.91 26.29
Our total emissions footprint
COe saved from exporting renewable energy to the
2
Scope 1 National Grid (tonnes of CO 2 e) 398 194 281 –
Refrigerants, HVAC, transport (logistics) 1.1% Total annual energy consumption (GWh) 5,420 5,511 6,000 6,823
Scope 2 UK only total Scope 1 and 2 market-based (tonnes
Purchased electricity 0.01% of CO 2 e) 699,447 772,944 888,676 1,751,572
Scope 3 UK only Scope 1 and 2 carbon intensity (kg COe/per
2
Purchased goods and services sq.ft. of stores and DCs) 10.65 11.47 13.88 26.29
(including deforestation) (Cat 1) 48.3%
73.1m UK only annual energy consumption (GWh) 4,549 4,368 5,037 5,502
Fuel- and energy-related activities (Cat 3) 5.2%
* For both energy and emissions data, we have included all major subsidiaries within Group measures and have included all
tCOe/year Upstream transportation and distribution (Cat 4) 2.3% UK-based subsidiaries in our consolidated UK disclosures.
2 Downstream transportation and distribution (Cat 9) 6.4% ◊ We engaged Deloitte LLP to provide independent limited assurance over the GHG emissions data highlighted in the above table
Use of sold products (Cat 11) 34.8% with a ◊ using the assurance standards ISAE (UK) 3000 and 3410. In addition, Deloitte have also assured selected categories of our
Scope 3 footprint to the value of 531,254 tonnes of CO2e. Deloitte has issued an unqualified opinion over the selected data.
End-of-life treatment of sold products (Cat 12) 0.7% Deloitte’s full assurance statement is available at: www.tescoplc.com/sustainabilityreport2025.
Investments (Cat 15) 0.4% Our method statement can be accessed at: www.tescoplc.com/sustainabilityreport2025. We use the market-based method for
calculating Scope 2 emissions for our total emissions to account for our efforts in generating and purchasing low-carbon energy.
Capital goods, waste generated in operations,
The location-based method is provided for disclosure only and all intensity, net and gross emissions shown are calculated using the
business travel and employee commuting, and Scope 2 market-based method.
processing use of sold products (Cat 2, 5, 6, 7, 10) 0.7%
Our total footprint has been calculated using Scope 1 and 2 emissions from 2024/25 and Scope 3 based on 2022/23. Our net zero
validated targets are based on the SBTi scope which excludes certain emissions like emissions from cooking the food purchased
in our stores or consumers driving to our stores. Our total 2022/23 emissions within SBTi scope were estimated at 58.9 million
tCO2e per year. We report on the categories that are material to Tesco based on their contribution to our end-to-end footprint.
Upstream leased assets (category 8) are not singled out as a separate category as any emissions coming from leased buildings are
already incorporated into our operational footprint. All other categories not included, such as: downstream leased assets
(category 13); and franchises (category 14), are irrelevant for our sector and the scope of our business.
Compliance statement Deloitte’s assurance
Tesco PLC has complied with all of Deloitte has provided independent third-party limited
the requirements of UKLR 6.6.6R assurance in accordance with the International Standard
by including climate-related for Assurance Engagements 3000 (ISAE 3000 revised) and
financial disclosures in this Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements
section (and in the information (ISAE 3410) issued by the International Auditing and
available at the locations Assurance Standards Board (IAASB) over the TCFD on
referenced therein) consistent pages 36 to 39 and selected metrics highlighted in
with the TCFD recommendations. this report with a ◊. Items marked with a T throughout
Tesco PLC has also complied with the Strategic Report and Corporate Governance sections
all reporting requirements under of the Annual Report are also included within the
sections 414CA and 414CB of the scope of Deloitte’s limited assurance. Deloitte’s full
Companies Act 2006 consistent unqualified assurance opinion, which includes details
with the CFD requirements. of the selected metrics assured, can be found at
www.tescoplc.com/sustainabilityreport2025.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 42 ---
Principal risks and uncertainties
Managing
our risks.
Effective risk management is core
to our management practices
e
which help deliver our strategy n c R
and our commitments to our u r a is k
s Monitoring Risk identification
s
customers, community, and A & auditing & assessment
the planet.
We are focused on conducting our business
8 1
responsibly, safely, and legally, while making
risk-informed decisions when responding Data Risk appetite
to opportunities or threats that present
themselves. The Board and Executive 7 2
Committee are responsible for the effective
management of risk across the Group, and we Culture &
manage our risks in line with the risk appetite Leadership
set by the Board.
6 3
Risk management framework (RMF)
Investigations Clear
The diagram to the right, provides an overview of
& follow up governance
our framework defining Tesco’s risk management
5 4
process and governance. Our RMF continues to
be embedded throughout the organisation
enabling us to clearly identify, prioritise, respond,
and monitor our most significant risks and
emerging risk themes. Our RMF supports Communications Policies, procedures
decision making, with culture and leadership & training & controls
being at the heart of our framework, including
a clear tone from the top on the importance of
risk management. Our colleagues play a vital role
in carrying our culture forward through their Controls
commitment to our shared values on risk
management. We provide regular learning
opportunities to strengthen our colleague
awareness on various risks and controls, for
example providing appropriate training to help
prevent cyber-security incidents, as well as
communicating the opportunities and
safeguards while using artificial intelligence tools.
nwod
poT
Bottom
up
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 40.
Risk management framework
Governance Risk control assurance methodology
Board
Audit Committee
Group Chief Executive
and Executive Committee
Group risk and
compliance committee*
Business and functional
leadership team
Principal risks are significant risks that could affect our strategic ambitions, future performance, viability, and/or reputation.
Full disclosures of these risks is included on pages 42 to 47.
* In addition to the Group risk and compliance committee, there are other internal stakeholder risk committees (e.g. cyber and privacy risk committee, planet committee).
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 43 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 41.
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Risk such as finance controls, ethics and compliance short-term risks and impacts, and we have the
T
and safety systematically test key processes and right teams, governance mechanisms, customer
A complete view of our risk universe starts
For risks where our risk appetite is low, controls established by management to mitigate offerings and strategies in place. However, the
with the analysis of our business, the external
we take a robust approach to determine risks. The work of second-line functions is long-term impacts remain uncertain, and we
environment within which we operate,
appropriate controls and responses. subject to review by internal audit on a cyclical will continue to monitor the external landscape
the regulatory landscape and our internal
For these risks (typically regulatory and basis. Data-driven assurance activities support closely and respond accordingly.
operations. This includes the impacts on our
compliance risks) we have established the decision-making process, thereby improving
strategy, initiatives, governance and processes. Our principal risks are interdependent
policies and blueprints to guide the the accuracy and reliability of our audit
and interconnected with each other, with
T business in managing the risks. These risks conclusions. Data informed insights and clear comprehensive and cogent strategies designed
are monitored formally by one or more of visibility of risks help our leaders in making
We use a consistent assessment criterion to our various governance bodies, such as strategic decisions. to mitigate the cascading effects on our overall
identify and prioritise risks at the Group, our Group risk and compliance committee, risk exposure. Further, the emerging themes that
business unit and functional level, along as well as by the Audit Committee. For Principal risks and uncertainties have a potential impact and require a response,
with horizon-scanning for emerging risk other risks, which are typically strategic, The most significant risks – those that have been considered as part of our risk
themes. The identified risks are categorised pervasive, or dynamic in nature, the could affect our strategic ambitions, future assessment process described on pages 42 to
into one or more of the following risk types: controls and responses are determined performance, viability, and/or reputation – 47. We are also aware of the requirements under
strategic; change; operational; finance; or on a case-to-case basis in line with the form our principal risks. the updated Provision 29 of the UK Corporate
compliance. This enables effective strategic goals of the organisation. Our Governance Code effective FY 26/27 and have
governance and monitoring of the risks. approach to risk appetite provides the Our principal risks are detailed in the following an ongoing dedicated programme to respond to
pages. This includes a summary of key the requirements with regular updates to the
framework to consistently respond to
information including the type of risk, links to our Audit Committee.
Management assesses the risks on a continuous risk and establish boundaries for coherent strategic drivers, risk movement, key responses
basis, taking into account the risk to Tesco’s risk decision making. This element of the and controls, and the oversight committees at
strategy, our colleagues and our operations, risk management framework has been the Executive Committee and Board level. This
as well as our impact on society and the enhanced during the current year, to list does not include all our risks. Additional risks,
environment. There is regular formal oversight align our risk appetite approach and not presently known, or those we currently
through clearly defined governance structures, adopt this consistently. consider to be less material, may also have
e.g. the cyber and privacy risk committee adverse effects. We also highlight principal risks
oversees the various elements of cyber security We provide continuous training programmes that are included in our long-term viability
and data privacy risks. During the year, we to equip our colleagues with updated skills and scenarios, on pages 50 and 51.
have further strengthened and formalised our knowledge, driving innovation and adaptability.
approach to risk appetite. The objective of this Investigations and follow-up ensure that control As of year-end FY 24/25, there are 13 Group
initiative is to strengthen the overall risk culture, deficiencies or irregularities are promptly principal risks, reflecting a reduction of two
embedding behaviours that drive informed identified, analysed, and addressed to prevent risks from year-end FY 23/24. This reduction is
decision-making across all business operations. recurrence. This process strengthens our overall attributed to the retirement of the Tesco Bank
principal risk, following the completion of the
control environment by promoting accountability
Controls sale of Banking operations to Barclays, and the
and mitigating risks.
A strong risk and controls culture forms the consolidation of the Customer and Competition
foundation of our RMF, with responsibilities Assurance and Markets principal risks, given their strong
shared across all management levels and Group Audit undertakes assurance activities interdependency and consequence on one
oversight by the Board, which actively engages in including regular risk based internal audits another. Further, given the heightened level of
risk discussions. The Audit Committee annually driven by the annual internal audit plan which is geopolitical uncertainty due to wars and civic
assesses RMF effectiveness, focusing on reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee. unrest, terrorism, elections, tariffs and
emerging and principal risks, while the Group risk The internal audit plan is aligned to principal risks government restrictions, we have elevated the
and compliance committee oversees key risks on and remains under review and subject to change, Geopolitics and other global events risk. Our
behalf of the Executive Committee. For further to reflect any updates to the risk profile through approach to these events is to continue to scan
details refer to the Corporate governance the year. The Audit Committee reviews and the external environment for threats, assess
section on pages 61 to 64. approves all changes to the audit plan and the risk to our business and build resilience to
minimise business disruption and prioritise the
receives regular updates on the outcome of the
safety of our colleagues and customers in the
work performed. Further, second-line functions
event of such incidents. We understand the
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 44 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 42.
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Strategic drivers Risk type
Strategic Change Operational Finance Compliance
Magnetic value for customers I love my Tesco Clubcard
Residual risk movement (after taking current responses and controls into consideration)
Easily the most convenient Save to invest
Risk increasing No risk movement Risk decreasing
† Indicates that the principal risk has been included as part of the longer term viability scenarios detailed on pages 50 and 51.
Principal risk Risk movement Key responses and controls
Cyber security† As in previous years, the importance of – Our layered cyber security defence model (LDM) consists of preventative, detective, and responsive
cyber security remains paramount. We technical controls and foundational capabilities. The security model continues to be strengthened
continue to invest in building the right in line with our strategy and detailed roadmap, with our progress tracked against milestones and
A cyber security incident can result in unauthorised access
capabilities and skills across our teams, defined outcomes.
to, or misuse of, our information systems, technology, or data.
which combined with colleague training – We regularly test our cyber security defences using independent third-party agencies to provide insight
This could lead to leakage of sensitive information, loss of our
and Executive level oversight, supports into the maturity of our cyber security position, and ensure our security operations centres ability to
critical assets, impact on trade, and reputational damage.
us in managing the risk effectively on detect, report, and respond to security incidents stays aligned with the changing threat environment.
Oversight: Cyber and privacy risk committee, Group risk an ongoing basis. – Governance and oversight committees at both senior management and Board levels monitor and
and compliance committee, Executive Committee, Audit oversee the results of the cyber security programme and its progress against the strategy.
Committee, Board. – Significant progress has been made in enhancing our ability to recover from catastrophic attacks on core
infrastructure and systems, along with addressing vulnerabilities associated with outdated technology.
– We recognise the importance of training and communication to help prevent cyber security incidents.
We hold regular induction, awareness, and refresher courses for all our colleagues.
– Our third-party supplier assurance programme assesses and manages cyber security risks associated
with service providers and suppliers as well as the use of third-party software.
Data privacy† We hold customer and colleague personal – Our data privacy policies and processes (including via privacy impact assessments and data governance)
data. Although the threat landscape has establish how we protect and appropriately use personal data.
been ever changing, the risk remains – There is regular reporting on progress and performance of the privacy compliance programme to
Failure to comply with legal or regulatory requirements
unchanged, and we continue to monitor governance and oversight committees. Our multi-year technology security programme is driving
relating to data privacy in the course of our business activities
and manage the risk closely through enhanced data security capabilities.
results in reputational damage, fines, or other adverse
structured implementation of our Group – Our Group privacy compliance programme includes ongoing assessment and monitoring of privacy risks
consequences. These can include criminal penalties and
privacy compliance programme, robust and controls across our businesses. A privacy assurance programme has been developed alongside the
consequential litigation, which may result in an adverse
governance, and oversight mechanisms. implementation of controls.
impact on our ability to do business.
– We have an established team in our security operations centre to detect, report and respond to
Oversight: Cyber and privacy risk committee, Group risk security incidents (including personal data incidents).
and compliance committee, Executive Committee, Audit – We have a third-party supplier assurance programme focusing on third-party data security and
Committee, Board. privacy risks.
– We recognise the importance of ongoing training and communication to raise awareness of good
data-handling practices, and to help prevent personal data incidents. We carry out regular induction,
awareness, risk-based tailored training (including refresher training) for our colleagues.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 45 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 43.
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Principal risk Risk movement Key responses and controls
Climate change† Climate change is a widely acknowledged – The planet committee oversees and governs the delivery of Tesco’s sustainability commitments, including
global emergency, with the need to act those related to climate change. The committee is chaired by the Chief Commercial Officer, and brings
faster becoming evident. Managing the together the different parts of the business, further enabling coordination during key decision-making.
Our climate change risks stem from both physical and
greenhouse gas emissions associated with – We have several metrics with appropriate management oversight and governance mechanisms to
transition risks. Our physical risks include tangible and direct
our supply chain is critical to reducing enable us to monitor progress. We are working internally and with third-party organisations to continue
impacts of climate change on our environment, infrastructure,
our impact on climate change. This risk developing this suite of metrics. There is a level of external assurance over the metrics, and we are
and human well-being. Our transition risks pertain to the
remains in line with the previous year. working to further enhance and extend this.
economic, financial, and societal impacts associated with
Our sustainability efforts focus on our
our transition to a low-carbon economy. Delivery against our
ability to create and preserve long-term T
1.5°C -aligned ambition to reach net zero by 2050 along the
value for people, planet, and the key
value chain, meeting our ESG targets and regulatory obligations communities we serve. – We have stated a commitment to be net zero by 2050. This pledge is in the process of being
to mitigate climate change is vital. This is because the longevity supported by road maps and targeted decarbonisation plans. These combine supplier engagement
and prosperity of our business depends intrinsically on the with innovative farming methods to support the reduction of our carbon footprint e.g. technology
health of the natural environment. investments in pursuit of low-carbon energy and transport. Our targets are validated by the
Oversight: planet committee, Executive Committee, Science-Based Targets initiative (SBTi).
Sustainability Committee, Audit Committee, Board. – We have aligned our climate-related ambitions with our reward policies and have two sustainability-
linked bonds. We also continue to report our climate-related financial disclosures, see TCFD section
on pages 36 to 39.
–
Geopolitics and other global events† Uncertain global events and disruptions – We continuously monitor the external environment for emerging risks that could disrupt our business,
are leading to greater volatility in the creating comprehensive plans with specific milestones and dedicated oversight to ensure resilience.
business environment, which requires Our long-term plans are adjusted to account for sensitivities, the interconnectivity of our principal risks,
Failure to address geopolitical uncertainties, such as wars,
us to be responsive and resilient. Our and scenario planning related to the broader macroeconomic environment.
civil unrest, terrorism, elections, government restrictions,
approach is to foresee events where – We closely track global developments and government guidelines. This includes engagement with trade,
rising geopolitical competition, fractured international
possible, assess the risk to our business, government, industry and labour bodies and ongoing monitoring of potential changes to the future
relations, including the potential impact of increased tariffs,
and build resilience to minimise business political landscape.
and potential future pandemics, could significantly disrupt
disruption and prioritise the safety – Our disaster recovery, crisis management and business continuity plans are continually tested and
our business. This may result in restricted access to our
of our colleagues and customers in the enhanced to minimise disruption due to geopolitical and other global events.
products, threats to our employees, operational challenges,
event of such incidents. This risk – The safety and wellbeing of our colleagues and customers remain our highest priority. Our management,
and broader global economic impacts.
has slightly increased compared to with regular Board oversight, diligently monitors events, including the spread of highly infectious diseases,
Oversight: Group risk and compliance committee, previous year given the heightened evaluates their impacts, and formulates appropriate response strategies.
Executive Committee, Audit Committee, Board. geopolitical uncertainty. – Learnings from events are integrated into our operations, such as securing supply chain capacity,
implementing hygiene protocols, enhancing store security, and supporting at-risk colleagues, customers,
and suppliers.
– The engagement of leadership and senior management is critical to the successful management
of this risk area. We have established structured communication plans to provide a clear tone from
the top and our leadership actively contributes to planning and scenario testing activities.
Technology As Tesco increasingly relies on technology – The enhancement of our technology infrastructure and platforms to improve resilience continues at pace.
to drive transformational change and Significant investment and activity continues to ensure maximum stability of our internal infrastructure and
achieve its strategic goals, the need for to increase our capability to respond and recover from unplanned outages of critical systems.
Failure to design, build, operate and maintain resilient key IT
enhanced technology capability and – Continued testing and auditing of our disaster recovery and business continuity plans provides assurance
systems and infrastructure, may result in loss of operating
robust technology resilience grows. We of our resilience and identifies opportunities for further improvement.
capabilities, financial impacts, and damage to our reputation.
consider this risk stable compared to the – Our continued investment in data centres, cloud hosting facilities and connectivity is providing greater
Oversight: Executive Committee, Audit Committee, Board. previous year, as we continue to invest in resilience and control for our key systems. Consolidating to a single public cloud hosting supplier has
the resilience and power of our underlying both simplified its management and enhanced security and resilience.
technology platforms and infrastructure, – We have robust and proven IT development, change management and lifecycle procedures in place
upskilling our team and attracting and skilled colleagues to build, operate and maintain our systems.
new talent. Enhanced governance is – Tesco’s technology risk and compliance committee provides oversight and governance of Tesco’s
provided through technology and AI technology risk and compliance management plans.
focused committees. – The AI governance group has been created to ensure Tesco has a well-balanced approach to exploit
AI opportunities, in alignment with good practice and accepted principles for responsible use of AI.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 46 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 44.
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Principal risk Risk movement Key responses and controls
Responsible sourcing† Exploitation of workers and human – We have policies and guidance to help ensure human rights are respected across our supply chain.
rights breaches remain the key drivers These include a focus on appropriately monitoring conditions and progress, tackling endemic sector
of this risk. risks, and addressing wider community needs.
Failure to ensure that products are sourced responsibly
across our supply chains (adhering to respect for Continued pressures on global – Our contractual agreements with suppliers clearly articulate the expected standards related to human
fundamental human rights, including ensuring clean and economies, have resulted in an increased rights and modern slavery. Suppliers’ obligations are monitored and discussed as part of regular
safe working conditions and fair pay to all employees) may risk of worker exploitation, particularly in governance meetings. We are increasing transparency of our supply chains to drive up standards, such
result in supply chain disruption, regulatory breaches, and some of our key sourcing countries. We as by publishing our Tier 1 supplier list.
reputational impact. continue to implement targeted response – We also provide targeted training for colleagues and suppliers dealing with specific regulations related
strategies, including the implementation to human rights and modern slavery.
Oversight: Group risk and compliance committee, corporate of innovative monitoring methods to – We operate supplier audit programmes to monitor supplier compliance with our standards related to
responsibility committee, Executive Committee, Audit ensure our standards are met. Our plan human rights. These include unannounced audits of supplier sites and facilities and the review of any
Committee, Board. to enhance the governance, scope and prior approvals for sub-contracting.
standards alignment have been identified – We qualify and review supplier factories through due diligence before use to ensure they can meet
and implemented. This risk remains stable our standards.
compared to the previous year. – We use certification schemes and participation in voluntary industry schemes to drive up our standards.
Health and safety The continued rise in theft and violence – Our business-wide, risk-based safety framework defines how we implement and report on safety
has led to a greater threat to the safety controls to ensure that colleagues, contractors and customers have a safe place to work and shop.
of our colleagues. However, the risk – We regularly review and update our health and safety framework to address operational changes. This
Failure to meet health, safety, and security standards in
remains stable, as we monitor and includes implementing enhanced controls and physical security measures to protect colleagues from
relation to our workplace may unfortunately result in death
progress on implementing specific increased threats of violence and abuse.
or injury to our customers, colleagues, or third parties, or
response strategies, to ensure we – We require each business to maintain a comprehensive health and safety risk assessment and risk
damage to our operations and lead to adverse financial, legal,
continue to provide safe workspaces for improvement plan to document and track enhancements.
and reputational consequences.
all our colleagues, and that we manage – Our store colleagues are provided with equipment and training to deter, de-escalate, manage and
Oversight: Group risk and compliance committee, increased regulatory enforcement of evidence violent and abusive behaviour.
Executive Committee, Audit Committee, Board. health and wellbeing. – Governance and oversight are established in the form of our Group risk and compliance committee
and business unit-specific health and safety committees. These committees review critical metrics and
monitor the effectiveness of related controls.
– Our safety audits, Protector Line arrangements and the results of our annual colleague surveys inform
management on the delivery of targeted safety initiatives, including communication plans.
– Our assurance activities, such as store and distribution compliance reviews, safety health checks and
audits, help us assess our compliance with established policies and processes. They also enable us
to continuously seek and identify areas for potential improvement.
– Our information exchange platform provides leading indicators of safety, enabling early identification
of threats and design of action plans which support injury prevention.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 47 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 45.
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Principal risk Risk movement Key responses and controls
Product safety and food integrity Given the evolving regulatory landscape, – Our product standards, policies and guidance, help ensure that products are safe, legal and of
continued economic pressures being the required quality. They cover food and non-food, as well as goods and services not for resale.
faced by our suppliers and evolution in – We closely monitor any updates to product safety regulations, to ensure our standards and products
Failure to meet regulatory standards and customer
consumer preferences, the external risk continue to conform with all relevant regulations.
expectations related to product safety, traceability and
has remained challenging. In response, – We conduct detailed due diligence of our suppliers prior to onboarding, to ensure that adequate
integrity could result in illness, injury or death damaging our
we continue to mature our already infrastructure, capabilities, and capacities are in place to meet Tesco’s standards.
relationships with customers, with negative effects on our
well-established and comprehensive – We run colleague training programmes on food and product safety, hygiene controls, and also provide
performance and corporate reputation.
food safety and quality management support for stores for product safety.
Oversight: Group risk and compliance committee, systems to manage this risk, resulting in – Our crisis management procedures are embedded within our operations to quickly resolve issues if
Executive Committee, Audit Committee, Board. the risk showing no significant movement non-compliant products are produced or sold. Clear escalation protocols include the product recall
compared to the previous year. processes. We operate unannounced supplier audit and product analysis programmes to monitor
product safety, traceability, and integrity. We use data analytics to identify which supplier sites may have
increased risk exposure, adjusting our audit frequency accordingly. This approach allows us to use our
resources effectively, while ensuring appropriate assurance over supplier’s sites is maintained.
– We operate a risk-based quality assurance programme, which is focused on sample-based testing of
our products to ensure compliance with our standards and regulations.
People Market competition for key leadership and – Our talent planning and people development processes, including succession planning for key roles,
specialist talent remains strong, within are established across the Group to identify, monitor, understand, and grow the skills required to fulfil
the retail sector and wider economy. strategic objectives of the business. The talent planning process includes succession planning for key
Failure to attract, retain and develop the required talent
Furthermore, wage inflation and other roles, and identification of any new skillsets and plans to secure these via internal development or
and capabilities, and to embed our values in our culture
macro-economic conditions also have external recruitment.
could impact on the delivery of our purpose and business
an impact on the risk. In response, we – Increased focus on strategic workforce planning will provide visibility of areas of future demand and
performance.
continue to have mitigation plans in identification of new skillsets required. This will enable us to take informed, targeted actions to meet
Oversight: Nominations and Governance Committee, place to attract and retain colleagues, future demand.
Remuneration Committee, Executive Committee, Audit ensure competitive compensation and – There are formal talent development programmes in place with regular discussions on talent and
Committee, Board. fulfil any gaps in specialised skillsets. On succession planning by management and the Executive Committee, with oversight by the Nomination
this basis, therefore, this risk has and Governance Committee and the Board.
remained unchanged. – We continue to invest in our ability to attract and develop talent, including through the introduction of a
new global careers website and recruitment platform. This will bolster our ability to build global, inclusive
talent pipelines and further enhance the experience of candidates.
– Our Remuneration Committee agrees the objectives and remuneration arrangements for senior
management. Additionally, we perform a regular review of our ‘total reward’ offers to ensure
remuneration offered for colleagues is competitive and appropriate. We also continue to engage
closely with trade unions to inform and adapt our future plans and strategy.
– We conduct an independent assessment of all leadership level promotions and external hires to ensure
capability, potential, leadership, and values remain central to our decision making related to hiring.
– Our speak up programmes and dedicated training across the Group include our continuous engagement
with colleagues on Protector Line and complaints process. These allow colleagues to raise in confidence
any workplace concerns such as dishonest activity, bullying, harassment, bias or anything that endangers
colleagues, the public or the environment.
– Led by colleague voice, we continue to roll out propositions to ensure the overall wellbeing of our
colleagues, including mental, physical, and financial wellbeing.
– Our Group diversity, equality and inclusion strategy helps to ensure that everyone is welcome and that
we provide all our colleagues with equal opportunities for growth and development. This is embedded
in our values, and we are committed to building an inclusive workplace where we treat people how they
want to be treated.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 48 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 46.
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Principal risk Risk movement Key responses and controls
Macroeconomic exposures† The risk is stable year-on-year, principally – We maintain and monitor appropriate systems, policies, and reports to ensure discipline and oversight on
because of our established processes all financial risk. Such policies are reviewed and approved by the Executive Committee, Audit Committee,
and policies for the management and the Board.
Our financial performance may be impacted by the broader
of such costs relating to inflationary – The Chief Financial Officer leads a team of in-house professionals, who monitor our adherence to such
macroeconomic environment, including uncertainties with
pressures, commodity costs, policies through regular oversight and governance meetings.
respect to, inter alia, inflationary pressures, commodity and
government and monetary policies – We continually monitor macroeconomic risk and impact on costs, to enable prompt and
other input costs, government policies, monetary policies,
and labour market conditions. data-driven mitigations.
and labour market conditions. If not managed appropriately,
– We review the impact of proposed and actual changes in government policies and regulations.
such costs may negatively impact our financial performance
– Long-term plans are flexed to consider sensitivities and scenario planning that relate to the wider
through higher operating and financing costs.
macroeconomic environment.
Oversight: Executive Committee, Audit Committee, Board. – We regularly review liquidity levels, sources of cash, and access to committed credit facilities and debt
capital markets is maintained.
– The Audit Committee maintains regular oversight and governance of key areas, including; liquidity
and funding strategy, tax obligations, our viability and going concern statements, and Group key
financial controls.
Customer, competition and markets† Customer behaviour and market – Our key strategic drivers underpin decision-making and are central to the design of our customer
competition are often closely linked, offerings, propositions and experience being provided through our different channels. The Board
wherein changes in market dynamics can develops and regularly challenges the strategic direction of our business to enhance our ability to remain
Inability to clearly understand changing customer behaviours
directly impact our customer preferences competitive on price, range, and service.
and respond to a complex and fast evolving competitive
and vice versa. By combining these – Our product ranges, propositions and Clubcard benefits are designed to provide our customers with the
landscape pose significant risks to our business. In this
risks, we can better understand and flexibility to achieve balance between value and quality.
challenging environment, our ability to deliver an effective,
manage the interplay between them. – We have a consistent approach to building impactful customer propositions by offering high-quality and
coherent, and consistent strategy is crucial. Failure
The combined risk remains stable as competitive value while improving the customer experience.
to do so may result in a loss of market share, adversely
we continue to have focused response – The Executive Committee and operational management regularly review markets, trading opportunities,
affecting customer trust in our brand and overall
strategies in place. competitor strategy, and activity. We carry out market scanning and competitor analysis to refine our
business performance.
customer proposition.
Oversight: Executive Committee, Audit Committee, Board. – Our Group-wide customer insight analysis enables us to dynamically improve our propositions. It does
this by monitoring customer behaviour and buying sentiments (including any changes due to external
factors such as inflation). This approach includes enriching customer engagement through tailored
campaigns, which also helps to improve customer retention as well as loyalty.
– Our well-established product development and quality management processes, ensure the needs of our
customer are central to our decision making. We continuously improve our digital platform, adding more
flexibility, delivery options, and an increased range of merchandise on offer to compete against new
players in the market.
– We monitor the effectiveness of our processes by regularly tracking our business and competitors
against measures that customers tell us are important to their shopping experience. We continue to
improve our Clubcard offerings and have introduced promotions and targeted campaigns to compete
with other retailers on price and product quality.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 49 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 47.
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Principal risk Risk movement Key responses and controls
Regulatory and compliance† We continue to monitor controls – Wherever we operate, we aim to ensure that we incorporate the impacts of regulatory changes in our
implemented across the Group, which strategic planning and policies. This includes engagement with trade, government and industry bodies
support the business to demonstrate and ongoing monitoring of potential changes to the future regulatory landscape.
Failure to comply with legal and other requirements (such
compliance with regulations. We have – We have compliance programmes and committees to manage our most important risks (e.g. grocery
as anti-bribery, competition law, grocery regulations, and
assessed the risk to be in line with the regulations, supplier code, anti-bribery, and competition law). We conduct assurance activities for
supplier code) in an increasingly litigious environment, may
previous year given our current response each key risk area.
result in fines, criminal penalties for Tesco or colleagues,
strategies, monitoring, and control – We support our code of business conduct and various policies by new starter and annual compliance
litigation (including class actions e.g. the ongoing equal
environment. The political component of training and other tools such as our Protector Line.
pay claim), that may lead to adverse financial, legal, and
this risk is now embedded in the wider risk – The engagement of leadership and senior management is critical to the successful management of this
reputational consequences.
definition of geopolitics and other global risk area. We have established structured communication plans to provide a clear tone from the top.
Oversight: Group risk and compliance committee, events.
Executive Committee, Audit Committee, Board.
Security of supply† Uncertain macro-events and disruptions, – We have a diversified portfolio of suppliers to reduce reliance on single suppliers or multiple key suppliers
such as inclement weather patterns, from the same region. This is further supplemented by a wide product range which enables us to offer
crop failures, logistical disruptions, and alternate products to our customers, in case of supply chain disruptions.
Disruption in our supply chain due to adverse macroeconomic
conflict between countries, continues – We have introduced a proactive and reactive approach to managing security of supply risks. This also
conditions, geopolitical events, and/or loss of resilience in
to affect the availability of raw material includes developing a technology solution for identifying high risk raw materials and regions, with
our key supplier network, may result in Tesco being unable to
and food supply. However, we have seen associated governance to support.
secure the products required to fulfil customer demand on
no significant disruptions in our product – We have an established mechanism to identify products which are key in our customer baskets and
time and at acceptable prices. This could result in customer
availability across our stores, therefore, have identified alternate or contingent suppliers to fulfil any slack in supply. Additionally, we maintain
dissatisfaction, reputational impact, loss of market share, loss
this risk has remained unchanged. appropriate stock levels within our warehouses for fast moving goods.
of sales, and erosion of expected profit margins.
– We have a detailed supplier onboarding and due diligence process, which allows us to review resilience
Oversight: Group risk and compliance committee, of suppliers, in terms of appropriate infrastructure as well as financial stability. Furthermore, the due
Executive Committee, Audit Committee, Board. diligence process includes assessment of any third parties or raw materials which the supplier may
be reliant upon.
– We have established regular governance forums through which our dedicated teams engage
with suppliers to proactively identify and resolve any issues (or upcoming threats) being faced
by our suppliers.
– We have committed significant investment with some of our key suppliers to enhance the underlying
infrastructure to ensure they are able to meet any increases or spike in demand volumes. Furthermore,
we monitor the financial stability of our key suppliers, and where possible, provide support to those
suppliers which may be facing financial duress.
– We have business continuity plans in place, which can be executed in case of any logistical disruptions
or inclement weather events which may affect our ability to transport goods.
Emerging risk themes
Emerging risk themes are reported to the Audit Committee alongside our principal risks. We conduct horizon scanning to enable a medium and longer-term view of potential disruptors to our business. As part
of our risk assessment process, we analyse internal and external sources of emerging risk themes through reviewing leading external publications, attending industry seminars and forums, gathering insights via
top-down and bottom-up risk discussions with internal stakeholders, and seeking professional consultation where required. We are currently tracking several emerging risk themes such as political, economic,
technological, environment and talent.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 50 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 48.
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
T
The policy risk models an increase in future carbon pricing which would largely impact the prices
TCFD risks and we pay our suppliers for the products we sell to customers. Under a 3°C pathway, we assume no
change to the current carbon taxation system which has generated a non-material output, while
the 1.5°C pathway models widespread adoption of increasing rates of carbon taxation. The model
opportunities. assumes a reduction in our emissions footprint, aligned to our net zero plan, and we have assumed
that the majority of the financial risk would be mitigated by means of shifts in consumer behaviour
and general market pricing.
Our assumption for the 1.5°C pathway over the longer term would be for carbon pricing to eventually
plateau, while for the 3°C pathway we would expect the currently low levels of global carbon prices
The tables below summarise the financial value at risk associated with three material transition risk to remain stable, with inconsistent global adoption and therefore immaterial financial impact.
categories (policy, consumer and technology) and one physical risk (raw materials supply) over the
short term (five years) and medium term (10 years) and a qualitative assessment of how these risks Consumer market risk
could evolve over the longer term (20 years). These time periods have been selected so that the
Pathway Unmitigated Unmitigated 20-year outlook
five-year, short-term view can inform our internal financial planning process, 10-year enables a view of
annual profit annual profit
how transitional risks and opportunities develop and 20 years captures the evolution of physical risk. impact five-year impact 10-year
outlook outlook
Risk management
3°C Not material Not material Conventional shopping preferences continue,
Following the establishment of climate change as a standalone principal risk in 2020/21, reviews
with existing levels of uptake for sustainable
have been conducted at various levels including the Executive Committee and the Board.
options continuing, resulting in only a minor
These include the identification and documentation of climate related risks and the review and impact to our current business
consideration of appropriate risk responses. This consolidated view provides an input to our
review of the Group risk profile. 1.5°C £50–100m £50–100m Demand for sustainable products and services
becomes mainstream in the market, the
The most recent principal risk review was presented to the Board and Executive Committee in purchasing behaviours and associated financial
February 2025. Climate is assessed to be one of our most material risks determined by a risk seen in the five and 10-year horizon stabilise
combination of likelihood and potential financial impact. over a longer time period rather than increasing
in a linear fashion
Management assesses the risks on a continuous basis, taking into account the risk to Tesco’s
strategy, our colleagues and our operations, as well as our impact on society and the environment.
This risk models the impact of customers’ sustainable purchasing decisions, for example placing
There is regular formal oversight through clearly defined governance structures. Our risk
a greater importance on the environmental impact when purchasing new clothes. The modelling
management framework continues to be embedded throughout the organisation, enabling us to
assumes no benefit from switching to more sustainable products and is based on our current
clearly identify, prioritise, respond to, and monitor our most significant risks and emerging risk
product category sales participation.
themes. We continue to track emerging climate regulations including any requirements for the
reporting and disclosure of climate risks. The modelling found the levels of financial risk in our core food business to be negligible, due to our
proven ability to adapt our product offer to meet changing consumer demands and the existing
Policy risk high levels of substitutability available to customers by means of our broad plant-based and
dairy-alternative product ranges. Our modelling of consumer preference changes allows our
Pathway Mitigated annual Mitigated annual 20-year outlook
product development and buying teams to work with our supplier partners to evolve our product
profit impact profit impact
ranges to remain at the forefront of emerging customer behaviours and demands.
five-year outlook 10-year outlook
Technology risk
3°C Not material Not material Carbon prices remain at current levels or rise
marginally, with an inconsistent global approach,
Pathway Unmitigated Unmitigated 20-year outlook
which leads to minimal financial impact to
annual profit annual profit
our business impact five-year impact 10-year
1.5°C £50–100m £100–150m Carbon prices begin to plateau and are outlook outlook
sustained at this level, with further adoption 3°C £0–50m £0–50m The pace of green technology uptake is steady
across the developed and developing economies and we continue to see impairment of fossil fuel
assets, but this remains at a low level
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 51 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 49.
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Technology risk continued Risk levels remain relatively low for both pathways, with or without mitigation activity considered.
This reflects that our grower base is already geographically diverse, offering a natural hedge to
Pathway Unmitigated Unmitigated 20-year outlook changing climate conditions in specific locations.
annual profit annual profit
impact five-year impact 10-year We recognise the impacts of climate change that we are already experiencing, and to an extent are
outlook outlook locked into from the delayed effect of historic emissions, compels us to develop adaptive plans in
our sourcing strategy to protect availability and quality. This includes ensuring a diverse supplier
1.5°C £25–75m £25–75m Green technology is established and dominates
the energy mix, as the remaining carbon-intensive base both locally and internationally.
assets get phased out the initial incremental cost In addition to the risks above, a further three transition risks and two physical risks were modelled
of write-offs fall away longer term which we have not disclosed.
This risk relates to the write-off of existing internal assets due to increasing levels of investment in
The transition risks assessed but not disclosed include: the risk of climate-related litigation; the risk
low carbon-based assets. The 1.5°C pathway assumes a faster-paced transition to green technology
of a negative shift in consumer sentiment; and negative investor sentiment due to a perceived lack
whereas our 3°C pathway assumes a much slower transition. The modelling uses the current net
of action to address climate change. We have chosen not to provide further detailed disclosure of
book value of our asset base, with no mitigation or planned transition of our current asset base.
these risks because we believe that our sustainability commitments and progress made to date
Risk levels for both pathways remain low even with no mitigation activity considered. Our mitigation are both well understood, and our ongoing engagement across our different stakeholder groups
plan for this risk is to continue to maintain both short and long-term investment plans with a clear enables us to stay aligned with changing expectations in this fast-developing space. This includes
connection between these plans and our sustainability targets and commitments. our significant investment in the decarbonisation of our property estate and transport fleet, our
market-leading sustainable product ranges, and the provision of the largest electric vehicle (EV)
Over the medium term in our 1.5°C pathway, we would expect green technology uptake to continue
charging network of any UK supermarket.
to grow and in the long term most non-green technology to be phased out. In our 3°C scenario green
technology uptake will continue to grow, but carbon based technologies remain in use. The two physical risks we have modelled but chosen not to disclose are the resilience of our
business facilities to climate impacts and market demand disruption driven by changing weather.
The Group’s three-year strategic plan integrates the delivery of our sustainability ambitions, of which
The geographically diverse nature of our store and distribution network provides a degree of
the decarbonisation of our own operations is the most material in terms of direct capital requirement.
structural resilience. Furthermore, our enhanced modelling capabilities allow us to anticipate and
The strategic plan is reviewed and approved by the Board annually, including a review of the key
manage the potential physical climate risks at a site level, for example devising flood plans at sites
decarbonisation initiatives and associated costs and capital investments. Our review process for
with high risk of flooding. As a result, while some individual locations will be more exposed to
proposed capital investments ensures we understand how different projects will impact our emissions
adverse climate impacts than others, the financial value at risk is not material either individually
levels. This enables us to balance the best carbon return for our investment, considering the maturity of
or aggregated and is therefore not included here.
emerging technologies and supply capacity. Beyond our three-year strategic plan, we have also created
a capital investment profile and associated decarbonisation impact to 2035, to align to our own Opportunities
operations decarbonisation target. More detail on our progress towards our 2035 target can be
As the impacts of climate change escalate, we witness increasing negative impacts on communities.
found in the TCFD section on pages 36 to 39. Therefore, our efforts focus on understanding and mitigating the risks to our business and
Raw materials risk stakeholders. However, we recognise risk mitigation can unlock some positive outcomes, for example:
– Lower impact ranges: shifting consumers’ diets is unlocking growth in new product ranges,
Pathway Unmitigated Unmitigated 20-year outlook
including alternative proteins, legumes, pulses, fruits and vegetables. As a retailer, Tesco can
annual profit annual profit
expand its plant-based ranges to cater to consumer demand, and mitigate some of the risks due
impact five-year impact 10-year
outlook outlook to consumption habits changing. Opportunities are explored through our accelerator programme
which supports developing brands to deliver innovation for customers. The brands are carefully
3°C £0–50m £0–50m Chronic risks challenge the viability of suppliers
selected to feed into emerging product trends, including health and sustainability.
in certain regions, leading to a high likelihood
– Resource efficiency: lowering emissions intensity within our operations and supply chain via
of material disruption
efficient energy solutions such as refrigeration and heating systems in our stores, can unlock
1.5°C £0–50m £0–50m Physical risks remain, impacting security of energy savings and thus financial savings.
supply, but more significant impacts are avoided – EV charging offering for customers: we are uniquely placed to be a convenient place for
customers to charge at while they shop.
This physical risk models the impact of chronic changes in temperature and precipitation on yields – Access to less volatile energy prices by increasingly procuring energy for stores via our onsite
of our key commodities. The model output assesses only the downside risk and assumes no and offsite long-term PPAs and also self-generating on-site.
mitigation such as identifying alternative sourcing locations.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 52 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 50.
Longer term viability statement
Longer term
viability statement.
Assessing the Group’s longer-term The multi-year performance framework sets out potential macroeconomic consequences
prospects and viability the objectives of the business: to drive top-line of inflation due to geopolitical events and Did you know:
growth; to grow absolute profits while global supply challenges;
The Directors have based their assessment of
maintaining sector leading margins; and to – Opportunities for further cost reduction
viability on the Group’s current long-term plan,
generate stable free cash flow each year. through operational simplification and In assessing the
which is updated and approved annually by the
The delivery of these objectives will enable leveraging technology; and
Board. The plan delivers the Group’s purpose of Group’s viability,
the Group to maintain a strong balance sheet, – The resilience afforded by the Group’s
‘serving our customers, communities and planet
a little better every day’ and is underpinned by invest for growth and deliver improved returns operational scale. the Directors have
for shareholders.
a clear strategic focus on creating sustainable, Assessing the Group’s viability conducted a robust
long-term value for every Tesco stakeholder. The Group continues to invest in delivering
The viability of the Group has been assessed,
great value, quality and customer service, while assessment of the
The Group conducts an annual strategic planning considering the Group’s current financial
delivering sustainable growth, supported by:
process, comprising a comprehensive position, including external funding in place over principal risks and
reassessment of progress against the Group’s – a strategic focus on driving growth and the assessment period, and after modelling the
strategic objectives, alongside an evaluation continued focus on cost reduction from impact of certain scenarios arising from the uncertainties facing
of the longer-term opportunities and risks in simplification of the operating model; Group’s principal risks outlined on pages 40
the Company,
each market in which the Group operates. – a clear set of financial priorities to deliver cash to 49.
The process for identifying the principal and profit, free cash flow and earnings per share including those that
Three ‘severe but plausible’ scenarios have been
emerging risks in each market is an important growth, underpinned by a robust capital
modelled which address the principal risks that would threaten its
input to this process. allocation framework; and
the Group has assessed would have the most
The Group’s strategic plan and viability – a diversified business portfolio covering retail, direct and material impact on the Group. None business model, future
wholesale, financial services and data science.
statement are both considered over a three- of the modelled scenarios, either individually or
performance,
year period, as this time horizon most Refer to the Chief Executive’s review on page 11 in aggregate threaten the viability of the Group.
appropriately reflects the dynamic and changing and the Financial review on pages 24 to 30 for The hypothetical scenarios described are also solvency or liquidity.
retail environment in which the Group operates. further detail regarding the Group’s strategic used as the basis for the risk-weighted cash
and financial progress. flows which are included in our impairment
Long-term planning process of non-current asset sensitivity analysis.
Longer-term prospects
The long-term planning process builds from For more information, please refer to Note 15
the Group’s current position and considers The following factors are considered both on pages 164 to 167.
the evolution of the strategic objectives over in the formulation of the Group’s strategic
the next three years. Three years is selected plan and in the longer-term assessment of
as the Group’s planning horizon and viability the Group’s prospects:
period based on the pace of change in both
– The principal risks and uncertainties faced by
the competitive landscape and customer
the Group, as well as emerging risks as they are
shopping behaviours within the retail sector.
identified, and the Group’s response to these;
Current position – The prevailing economic climate and global
economy, competitor activity, market
Our multi-year performance framework,
dynamics and changing customer behaviours;
strategic drivers and capital allocation
– Any structural changes in how customers shop,
framework, which were introduced in 2021,
additional costs incurred by the Group and
continue to guide management’s actions.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 53 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 51.
Longer term viability statement continued
We expect to be able to refinance external debt
Scenario Associated principal risk Description
and renew committed facilities as they become
Ongoing geopolitical events – Geopolitics and other global events Geopolitical events, including a more widespread use of tariffs, trigger supply chain due, which is the assumption made in the
trigger global supply chain – Security of supply volatility and commodity price inflation, resulting in resurgent cost inflation in the viability scenario modelling. Our committed
challenges and resurgent – Responsible sourcing markets in which we operate for a sustained period. The Group incurs elevated facilities remain undrawn as at the end of the
inflation, leading to weak – Macroeconomic exposures levels of cost inflation across goods purchased for sale to customers and the financial year. Please refer to Note 22 on
– Customer, competition and markets operating cost base, particularly in costs related to colleague payroll. The ability
consumer confidence, page 171 for further details on our debt profile,
of the Group to manage these cost tensions through cost savings is constrained.
further intensifying including maturity dates. The scenarios on the
Options to offset cost increases through retail prices are constrained, with
competition in the sector competition in the grocery sector intensifying further in a bid for price leadership. left are hypothetical and purposefully severe
UK interest rates remain elevated beyond current forecasts as central banks seek to with the aim of creating outcomes that could
maintain target inflation levels. Management has applied a downside scenario which threaten the viability of the Group. In the case
reduces projected like-for-like sales growth across the three years of the Group’s of these scenarios arising, additional mitigation
strategic plan by c.(2)%. options are available to the Group to maintain
liquidity to continue in operation, such as:
Data breach – Cyber security The volume and nature of the customer and supplier data we hold as a business
(i) accessing new external funding early;
– Regulatory and compliance could result in a serious data or security breach, which sees a significant financial
– Customer, competition and markets penalty levied against the Group, aligned to the UK GDPR penalty framework, which (ii) short-term cost reduction actions; and
– Data privacy could see a maximum fine levied of 4% of Group revenue. For the purposes of this (iii) reducing capital expenditure.
stress test, management has included a fine quantified as 2% of Group revenue,
None of these mitigating actions are assumed
being the mid-point of the potential maximum fine. A significant data breach poses
in our current scenario modelling.
a reputational risk, resulting in a decline in customer sentiment and an adverse
trading impact. The extent of this trading impact is very uncertain, both in terms of Viability statement
the financial impact and the period it may take to regain customer trust. As such,
the potential brand reputation element of this scenario has been modelled via a Based on these severe but plausible scenarios,
‘reverse stress test’. This assesses the risk in the context of the residual headroom the Directors have a reasonable expectation
after all other scenarios have been applied. The resultant like-for-like sales decline that the Company will continue in operation
which would have to occur to eliminate the residual cash headroom, including all and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the
other scenarios happening in aggregate, is significantly higher than any decline the three-year period considered.
Group has faced in recent history.
Climate change – Climate change Rising global temperatures result in an increasing incidence and severity of extreme This Strategic report (on pages 5 to 51
– Geopolitics and other global events weather events, leading to a higher incidence of store closures due to flooding and and incorporating by reference pages 70
– Security of supply disruption to our global supply chain. The quantification of the potential financial and 71 and pages 237 to 240) has been
– Responsible sourcing impacts of physical and transitional risks and opportunities linked to climate change
prepared in accordance with the
– Regulatory and compliance on the Group have been taken from our ongoing climate-related risk modelling work
requirements of the Companies Act
– Customer, competition and markets based on 1.5°C warming pathway.
2006, and has been approved and
signed on behalf of the Board.
Ken Murphy
Group Chief Executive
9 April 2025
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 54 ---
Corporate governance report
Governance The purpose of this report is to demonstrate the Board’s approach to corporate governance,
which is underpinned by reporting against the UK Corporate Governance Code 2018.
It provides an overview of the work of the Board and Committees across the year.
overview.
Non-executive Director tenure
Average tenure: 3 years and 10 months Independence (number of Gender %
independent Directors)
9
8
7
6
Independent Male 58%
Non-executive Directors 9 Female 42%
Executive Directors 2
5 Chair (independent
upon appointment) 1
4
Ethnicity % Geographic experience
(number of Directors with
Board expertise Board skills
3 international experience)
Financial
International
2
Marketing
Property
Remuneration
1
Retail
Risk
Strategy
Sustainability
Supply chain/Logistics White 83% UK 12
Ethnically diverse 17% Europe 8 Technology/Digital Rest of World 6
yhpruM
yrreG
llehteB
assileM
nosdoB
dnartreB
nriabriaF
nyloraC
reinraG
yrreihT
dnalilliG
trawetS
ydenneK
sirhC
ttalP
nosilA
revliS
eniloraC
htrowtihW
neraK
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 52.
Contents
Governance overview 52
Governance introduction 54
Board of Directors 56
Governance framework 61
Executive Committee 63
Purpose and culture 65
Performance review 66
Board activity 67
Nominations and Governance Committee 72
Sustainability Committee 76
Audit Committee 80
Directors’ remuneration report 90
Directors’ report 237
All data on this page is as at 22 February 2025
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 55 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 53.
Corporate governance report continued
Governance Overview continued
Compliance with the UK Chris Kennedy, an Executive Director at ITV plc, The Board is familiar with the changes following
Corporate Governance Code 2018 was appointed to the Board on 20 February 2025. the publication of the UK Corporate Governance Did you know:
He will step down from his role as a Code 2024 (2024 Code) and intends to be
During the year the Company has applied
non-executive director at Whitbread plc compliant with all new relevant provisions
the principles set out in the UK Corporate
at the conclusion of the Whitbread plc AGM in in the timeframes dictated in the 2024 Code. Having an effective
Governance Code 2018 (the Code), and
compliance with the Code, to ensure he has
complied with all provisions of the Code Monitoring compliance with the Code is the corporate governance
sufficient time to meet the requirements of
with the exception of provision 15. responsibility of the Nominations and Governance
his role as a Non-executive Director at Tesco. Committee, which receives regular updates and framework supports
reports its findings to the Board. Details of how
the Board in the
the principles of the Code have been applied can
be found throughout this Corporate governance delivery of the
Code principles Pages
report, the Strategic report and adjacent
Board leadership and company purpose committee reports as signposted below. Group’s strategy and
Promoting the long-term, sustainable success of the company 50, 51, 61 to 64 and 67 to 71 Fair, balanced and understandable supports long-term
Purpose and culture 19 to 23, 54, 55, 65, 67 to 69, The Group has a strong commitment to balanced sustainable growth.
101, 102, 104 and 114 reporting. As part of the fair, balanced and
understandable review, the Annual Report and
Resources and controls 41, 84
Financial Statements 2025 has been reviewed by
Stakeholder engagement 20 to 22, 60, 69, 70, 104 and 114 management, as well as independent functions,
who performed verification and assessment
Workforce engagement 20, 69, 104 and 114
under prescribed guidance. On behalf of the
Division of responsibilities Board, the Audit Committee undertook a review
of the Annual Report and Financial Statements
Role of Chair, Non-executive Directors and 56 to 60
2025, as well as the effectiveness of processes
Group Company Secretary
and controls which underpin its production,
Board composition and recommended to the Board that the Annual
Report and Financial Statements 2025 provided
Composition, succession and evaluation 52, 54, 56 to 58, 66, 72 to 74, the necessary information to assess the
79, 89 and 238 Company’s position and performance,
Appointments to the Board and succession planning 56 to 58, 72 to 74, 238 business model and strategy.
Balanced board 23, 52 and 56 to 58 In accordance with the Code, confirmation
by the Board is set out in the Statement
Board performance 54, 55, 66, 72 to 74, 79 and 89 of Directors’ responsibilities on page 123
and is supported by the independent auditor’s
Audit, risk and internal control
report on pages 124 to 134 outlining their
Audit Committee report 80 to 89 reporting responsibilities.
Principal risks and uncertainties 40 to 49
Remuneration
Directors’ remuneration report 90 to 122
The Financial Reporting Council (FRC) is responsible for the publication and periodic review of the
UK Corporate Governance Code, which can be found on the FRC website at www.frc.org.uk.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 56 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 54.
Corporate governance report continued
Governance Delivering on our longer-term Board evolution
ambitions The composition of the Board has evolved
The Board plays an active role in developing and further this year with two changes. In June 2024,
introduction. overseeing the implementation of strategy, Byron Grote stepped down at the AGM having
ensuring alignment with our purpose of serving served nine years as a Non-executive Director
all of our stakeholders a little better every day. on the Board. I am grateful to Byron for his
Over the past year, the Board has provided outstanding contribution and commitment to
Gerry Murphy guidance as Tesco continues to focus on its the Board. In February 2025, we welcomed
Chair core retail business, expand digital capabilities Chris Kennedy to the Board. Chris is a seasoned
and deliver on its ambitious sustainability business leader with extensive experience
commitments, including the target to be carbon across the media and hospitality sectors.
neutral across our own operations by 2035. He brings a wealth of knowledge in financial
management, strategic planning, and corporate
We remain focused on driving efficiency and
governance and he will be a real asset to the
innovation to support long-term competitiveness,
Board. We will say goodbye to Alison Platt who,
including improving our online offering and
having served nine years on the Board, will be
leveraging data through Clubcard and Tesco’s
stepping down from the Board at the conclusion
digital platforms. The Board’s oversight ensures
of this year’s AGM. I would like to thank Alison for
that management remains accountable for
her invaluable contributions and expert guidance
delivering results that are both commercially
to Tesco over the years, including in her role as
strong and socially responsible.
Remuneration Committee Chair. I am pleased
Dear Shareholder Board effectiveness and governance that Melissa Bethell will be taking on the role
of Remuneration Committee Chair from the
An effective and high-performing Board is
conclusion of the AGM having been a member
The Board believes that I am pleased to present this Governance report critical to achieving Tesco’s long-term objectives. of the Committee since September 2018. We
its continued focus on the for the year ended 22 February 2025. The report This year, we conducted an externally-facilitated will also welcome Chris Taylor as our new Group
that follows, in conjunction with the Nominations Board performance review to assess our Company Secretary in April 2025.
implementation of our strategy and Governance, Sustainability, Audit, and performance, identify areas for improvement
Remuneration Committee reports, seeks to and ensure that we continue to operate Overview of remuneration
has delivered a balanced
demonstrate our high standards of governance effectively as a collective leadership body. policy changes
outcome for our customers, and key developments throughout the year. The review concluded that the Board operates In line with the three-year renewal cycle, we
colleagues, suppliers Having a strong and effective corporate with a strong culture of openness, constructive will be presenting our remuneration policy
governance framework supports the Board’s challenge and collaboration. The Board has an for shareholder approval. As the policy has
and shareholders. focus on the ethical leadership and effective appropriate balance of skills, experience and functioned well, no material changes are
decision making needed to deliver long-term diversity to support Tesco’s strategic ambitions. proposed. A key element of the review is to
sustainable growth and ensures that the Board However, we remain committed to continuous ensure that the policy takes account of Tesco’s
has the right level of oversight of the material improvement and have implemented several evolving strategy. Further details are discussed
issues facing the Group. enhancements to our Board processes, including within the Director’s remuneration report on
The Board remains focused on ensuring that our a deeper focus on digital transformation, ESG pages 90 to 122.
governance framework aligns with the evolving oversight and succession planning.
expectations of our stakeholders and the We also continue to strengthen the capabilities
principles of the UK Corporate Governance of our Board committees, each of which plays
Code. Its role is to provide strategic oversight, a key role in overseeing specific aspects of
ensure accountability and maintain a culture governance, risk management and sustainability.
of integrity throughout the organisation.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 57 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 55.
Corporate governance report continued
Governance Introduction continued
Stakeholder engagement Looking ahead Key highlights from the Board in 2024/25
Our Board and management work hard to Tesco delivered a strong financial and strategic
embed the right behaviours, conduct and performance in 2024/25. We continued to lay Development of the The Board spent more time on developing the longer-term
decision making so that we always do the right the foundations to support meeting our longer-term strategy strategy with a focus on customer strategy, digitisation
thing for our stakeholders. The Board recognises long-term ambitions. As I look to the future, and personalisation.
the importance of understanding and I am excited about the opportunities that lie Sale of the Group’s Completion of the sale of the Group’s Banking operations
considering their views in our decision making. ahead for the Group and confident that we Banking operations and focus on the separation of the Insurance and Money
Through active engagement, particularly with can continue to realise Tesco’s full potential. Services business.
our Colleague Contribution Panels (CCP), we
look for insights, feedback and understanding of On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank our Scrutiny of operational and Management reporting scrutinised at each Board meeting
what is important to our stakeholders. We also colleagues, in particular, for their unwavering financial performance with deep dives into financial and risk matters by the
maintain strong relationships with our suppliers, commitment and resilience. I also extend my Audit Committee.
thanks to all our stakeholders for their trust
supporting fair partnerships and shared and continuing support. Oversight of Review of key milestones and operational capital expenditure
sustainability goals. Further information on the sustainability strategy required to achieve our carbon neutral targets.
2024/25 CCPs can be found on page 69, as well
as seeing the Board in action on pages 67 to 68. Return of capital Continued to review our share buyback programme,
building on the ongoing capital return programme launched
Sustainability and ESG leadership Gerry Murphy in October 2021.
The Board is firmly committed to delivering our Chair
climate and sustainability goals. We continue 9 April 2025
to make good progress on our climate action
Key focus during 2024/25
road map, with clear accountability for reducing
emissions, promoting healthier and more
sustainable products, and supporting
responsible sourcing practices. ESG
considerations are fully integrated into the Purpose and strategy 23%
Board’s discussions and decision-making Operational performance 18%
processes and community engagement Financial performance, risk management
remains a priority, with continued investment and internal control 20%
in programmes such as Stronger Starts and S takeholder engagement 20%
our ongoing support for local food banks.
Governance and culture 19%
2025/26 Board priorities
Strategy Further develop and implement the longer-term strategy
and growth ambitions.
Succession planning and Continue to identify the capabilities required to support the
talent management longer-term strategy and ensure the talent pipeline is aligned
to the needs of the business.
Sustainability Integration of sustainability into the longer-term strategy and
continue to embed sustainability initiatives through our planet
plan across our business.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 58 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 56.
Corporate governance report continued
Board of The Board is currently composed of the Chair, who was independent Key: A Audit Committee
upon appointment, two Executive Directors and nine Independent N Nomination and Governance Committee
Non-executive Directors. R Remuneration Committee
Directors.
S Sustainability Committee
Committee Chair
Chair Group Chief Senior Independent
Chief Executive Financial Officer Director
Dr Gerry
Ken Imran Dame Carolyn
Murphy.
Murphy. Nawaz. Fairbairn DBE.
Appointed
September 2023 Appointed Appointed Appointed
October 2020 May 2021 September 2023
N
A N R S
Skills, experience and competences Skills, experience and competences Skills, experience and competences Skills, experience and competences
Gerry has extensive global leadership Ken is a growth-orientated business leader Imran has over 20 years’ experience in the Carolyn brings a wealth of experience to the
experience through both executive and with strong commercial, marketing and brand global food industry and broad financial, Board with her deep understanding of the
non-executive roles. His executive career was experience within retail and wholesale strategic and international experience gained macroeconomic, regulatory and political
spent in retail and other customer-focused businesses. He has experience in global across a number of large multinational environment and significant experience across
businesses in senior leadership and product brand management, product organisations. His financial, strategic, media, government and finance sectors.
commercial roles. His significant business and development, sales and marketing, sourcing, leadership and international strengths are
External appointments
board level experience and deep understanding manufacturing and distribution. a valuable asset to Tesco as we deliver on
Current:
of corporate governance, enable him to our strategic priorities.
External appointments – Non-executive director: HSBC Holdings plc
provide the Board with valuable leadership in
Current: External appointments – Chair of the board of trustees: Royal
the delivery of the Group’s strategic objectives.
– None Current: Mencap Society
External appointments – None
Past: Past:
Current:
– Executive vice president, chief commercial Past: – Director-general: Confederation of
– Chair: Burberry Group plc
officer and president of global brands: – Chief financial officer: Tate & Lyle PLC British Industry
– Senior advisor: Perella Weinberg Partners
Walgreens Boots Alliance – Various roles: Mondelēz International, Inc, – Non-executive director: Lloyds Banking
Past: – Various roles: Procter & Gamble and Kraft Foods, Philip Morris and Deloitte Group plc, The Vitec Group plc, Capita plc,
– Chair: The Blackstone Group International Coopers & Lybrand (now PwC) BAE Systems plc, UK Competition and
Partners LLP and Tate & Lyle PLC Markets Authority and Financial
– Non-executive director: Intertrust N.V., Services Authority
British American Tobacco plc, Merlin – Senior positions: McKinsey & Company,
Entertainment plc, Reckitt Benckiser plc, BBC and ITV plc
Abbey National plc and Novar plc – Member: Number 10 Policy Unit
– Chief executive officer: Greencore Group
plc, Exel plc, Carlton Communications plc
(now ITV plc) and Kingfisher plc
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 59 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 57.
Corporate governance report continued
Board of Directors continued
Independent Independent Independent Independent
Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director
Melissa Bertrand Thierry Stewart
Bethell. Bodson. Garnier. Gilliland.
Appointed Appointed Appointed Appointed
September 2018 June 2021 April 2021 March 2018
A N R N S N S S N R
Skills, experience and competences Skills, experience and competences Skills, experience and competences Skills, experience and competences
Melissa’s wealth of international corporate, Bertrand is an accomplished business Thierry brings extensive experience in the Stewart brings over 40 years’ experience and
strategy and financial experience across a executive, with significant experience of digital retail sector, both in the UK and internationally, knowledge in international marketing, logistics
range of industries, with a focus on private transformation, technology and the with a successful track record of implementing and business management, having held a
equity, advisory services, strategic consultancy application of AI. He brings exceptional business transformation and driving leading- number of senior roles, predominantly in
and the financial, media and technology leadership and business expertise to the edge digital innovation in competitive and customer-centric businesses. His experiences
sectors, is invaluable in delivering our strategy. Board, as well as experience in delivering rapidly-changing retail environments. as an executive and non-executive director,
corporate transformation programmes while and understanding and advocacy of supplier
Melissa will be appointed chair of the External appointments
maintaining a focus on performance. His relationships, customers, colleagues and
Remuneration Committee from the conclusion Current:
significant knowledge of digital and technology sustainability, which directly support Tesco’s
of the 2025 AGM. – Chief executive officer: Kingfisher PLC
matters gained across a number of sectors, strategy, provide him with the skills and
External appointments including retail, enhances the Board’s Past: capabilities as Chair of the Sustainability
Current: oversight of these areas and the delivery – Executive committee member: Carrefour SA Committee. The breadth and diversity of
– Chair: Ocean Outdoor Limited of the strategy. – Senior positions: CEO, Carrefour Asia and Stewart’s experience is a benefit to the Board.
– Non-executive director: Diageo PLC, Carrefour International and managing
External appointments External appointments
Exor N.V. and Brillio LLC director of Carrefour in France
Current: Current:
– Senior advisor: Atairos
– Chief executive officer: Keywords Studios Ltd – Chair: IG Design Group PLC
Past: – Non-executive director: Nature’s Way
Past:
– Non-executive director: Samsonite Foods Ltd
– Supervisory board: Wolters Kluwer N.V.
International S.A., Worldpay Group PLC and
– Senior positions: Novartis AG, Sainsbury’s Past:
Atento S.A.
Argos and EMI Music – Chair: Booker Group plc and C&C Group plc
– Senior positions: Atairos Europe, Bain Capital
– Co-founder and CEO: Bragster.com – Chief executive: Müller Dairies UK and Ireland
and Goldman Sachs & Co
– Non-executive director: Chapel Down
Group plc
– Senior positions: Whitbread plc, Mitchells &
Butlers plc and Interbrew
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 60 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 58.
Corporate governance report continued
Board of Directors continued
Key: A Audit Committee
N Nomination and Governance Committee
R Remuneration Committee
S Sustainability Committee
Committee Chair
Independent Independent Independent Independent
Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director
Chris Alison Platt Caroline Karen
Kennedy. CMG. Silver. Whitworth.
Appointed Appointed Appointed Appointed
February 2025 April 2016 October 2022 June 2021
A N N R A N A N R S
Skills, experience and competences Skills, experience and competences Skills, experience and competences Skills, experience and competences
Chris is a seasoned business leader with Alison has extensive experience of leadership Caroline brings to the Board over 20 years of Karen has significant strategic, financial and
extensive experience across the media and in customer-driven organisations across the non-executive experience, together with a risk experience gained through a number of
hospitality sectors. He brings a wealth of healthcare, insurance and property sectors. wealth of knowledge gained across senior commercial, operational and governance
knowledge in financial management, strategic Alison has gained significant business-to- commercial, financial and governance roles. roles. In addition, she brings to the Board
planning, and corporate governance, business and international commercial Her strategic insight and significant experience, extensive knowledge of the retail sector,
stemming from his contribution to the experience from working for high-profile both in the financial sector and as a serving UK logistics and supply chain gained across
financial transformation of several UK listed consumer-facing companies. Her former listed company chair, provides guidance and a number of senior retail roles.
companies across his breadth of senior membership of the steering group of the constructive challenge to senior management
External appointments
executive roles. Hampton-Alexander Review provides strategic in delivering our strategy.
Current:
insights on diversity and inclusion. Alison will
External appointments External appointments – Senior independent director: The Rank
not seek re-election and will step down from
Current: Current: Group plc and Tritax Big Box REIT plc
the Board at the conclusion of the 2025 AGM.
– Chief financial officer and chief operating – Chair: Barratt Redrow PLC and ICE Clear Europe – Non-executive director: Nuffield Health
officer: ITV plc External appointments – Non-executive director: Intercontinental
Past:
– Non-executive director: Whitbread plc Current: Exchange, Inc
– Supervisory board member: GS1 UK Limited
(retiring at the conclusion of the Whitbread – Chair: Ageas (UK) Limited – Member: International advisory board of
– Non-executive director: Pets at Home Group
plc AGM in June 2025) – Non-executive director: Spectrum Wellness Adobe Inc and V&A Foundation
plc
– Trustee: EMI Archive Trust Holdings Limited and Inchcape plc – Senior advisor: Moelis & Company
– Member: Commercial board and director
– Member: The Takeover Panel Hearings – Chair of audit committee: National Film and
Past: of non-food grocery and new business at
Committee (with effect from 1 May 2025) Television School
– Group finance director: Micro Focus J Sainsbury plc
International plc, ARM Holdings plc Past: Past: – Senior positions: BGS Holdings Limited,
and easyJet plc – Chair: Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC and – Chair: PZ Cussons PLC InterContinental Hotels Group PLC and
– Non-executive director: Great Ormond St Opportunity Now – Non-executive director: Meggitt PLC, M&G Coopers & Lybrand (now PwC)
Hospital Foundation Trust – Non-executive director: Foreign and PLC and Bupa Limited – Independent advisor and board member:
– Senior positions: EMI Group Commonwealth Office and Cable & Wireless – Senior positions: Moelis & Company, GrowUp Farms Limited
Communications PLC Morgan Stanley and Merrill Lynch
– Senior positions: Countrywide Limited and – Trustee: Victoria and Albert Museum
Bupa Limited – Board member: London Ambulance Service Detailed biographies for each member
NHS Trust of the Board can be found at
www.tescoplc.com.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 61 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 59.
Corporate governance report continued
Board of Directors continued
Director changes during the year Board attendance table as at 22 February 2025(a)
Byron Grote Tenure: May 2015 – June 2024 Stepped down after nine years’ Gerry Murphy 6/6
service as a Non-executive
Director on the Board. Ken Murphy 6/6
Chris Kennedy Joined the Board on Appointed as an independent
Imran Nawaz 6/6
20 February 2025 Non-executive Director and
member of the Audit
Melissa Bethell 6/6
and Nominations and
Governance Committees.
Bertrand Bodson 6/6
Additional external commitments Carolyn Fairbairn 6/6
During the year, the Board approved the additional external commitment taken on by Alison Platt.
Thierry Garnier 6/6
An assessment of time-commitment, effectiveness, independence and the impact of any
cross-directorships was considered. It was agreed that these additional external commitments Stewart Gilliland 6/6
would not impact her role and commitment to Tesco PLC.
Chris Kennedy(b) 1/1
More information on the review of Directors’ time commitments can be found in the
Nominations and Governance Committee report on page 73.
Alison Platt(c) 5/6
Caroline Silver(c) 5/6
Group Company Secretary
Karen Whitworth 6/6
Chris Taylor.
Appointed April 2025* (a) This table shows details of attendance at scheduled Board meetings during the year. Attendance at the Audit, Nominations and
Governance, Remuneration and Sustainability Committee can be found on the relevant committee pages. Byron Grote stood
down from the Board and relevant committees on 14 June 2024.
(b) Chris Kennedy joined the Board as a Director and a member of the Audit Committee and Nominations and Governance
Committee on 20 February 2025.
(c) Tesco PLC Board and committee meetings are scheduled two years in advance of the meeting. Due to unavoidable circumstances,
it was necessary to change meeting dates during 2024/25. This resulted in Alison Platt and Caroline Silver each being unable to
attend one Board meeting during the year due to prior commitments. Alison and Caroline’s prior commitments affected different
Board meetings, but both contributed to meeting discussions in advance. Details of their committee attendance can be found on
pages 72, 80 and 90.
Skills, experience and competences
Chris is an experienced chartered Company Secretary having held positions at a number of listed
companies. Chris provides governance, legal and regulatory advice and support to the Board and the
boards of all other legal entities in the Group.
* Chris Taylor will be appointed as Group Company Secretary of Tesco PLC as at 14 April 2025.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 62 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 60.
Corporate governance report continued
Board of Directors continued
Division of responsibilities
The Board has agreed a clear division of responsibilities, with the responsibilities of the Chair, Group Chief Executive, Senior Independent Director and other Directors clearly defined so that no individual has
unrestricted powers of decision, and no small group of Directors can dominate the Board’s decision making. While there is no formal role profile, the Group Chief Financial Officer is responsible for the financial
affairs of the Group while supporting the Group Chief Executive in the development and execution of the Group’s strategy.
In addition, Non-executive Directors take on the role of workforce engagement and host the twice-yearly Colleague Contribution Panels (CCP). These additional responsibilities are set out in the table below.
More details on the CCP can be found on page 69.
Chair Group Chief Executive Senior Independent Director Non-executive Directors Workforce engagement Group Company Secretary
Board host
The Chair leads the Board, The Group Chief Executive is The Senior Independent Bring independent insight and Engage and listen to the CCP – Supports the Board and
ensuring its effectiveness while responsible for: Director’s responsibilities experience to the Board. representatives and develop Committee Chairs to plan
taking account of the interests of – Developing Tesco’s strategic include: a greater understanding future agendas and annual
The Non-executive Directors
the Group’s various stakeholders, direction for consideration – Acting as a sounding board of colleagues’ views on the programmes.
have responsibility for:
and promoting high standards by the Board. for the Chair and a trusted operations of the business. – Ensures information is made
– Constructive challenge of
of corporate governance. – Implementing the strategy intermediary for other available to Board members
the strategies proposed by Monitor actions to address
and reporting on progress. Directors. in a timely fashion.
Key responsibilities include: the Executive Directors. issues raised by the CCP
– Day-to-day management – Leading the annual review of – Supports the Chair to design
– Providing effective leadership – Scrutinise the performance representatives.
of the Company, the Chair’s performance, and deliver Board inductions.
of the Board and promoting the of management in achieving
communicating expectations together with the Non- With the support of the Chief – Coordinates continuing
highest standards of corporate agreed goals and objectives.
in relation to Company executive Directors, taking People Officer, report back to business awareness and
governance practices. – Play leading roles in the
culture and ensuring into account the views of the the Board to ensure all training for the Non-
– Leading the Board in providing function of the Board
responsible business Executive Directors. directors have an awareness executive Directors.
strong strategic oversight and committees and bring
conduct across the business. – Discussing the results of the of colleague views and these – Undertakes internal Board
setting the Board’s agenda, an independent view to
– Providing effective Chair’s effectiveness review are reflected in decisions. and committee evaluations
culture and values. the discussion.
leadership, coordination and with the Chair. at the Chair’s request.
– Leading the Board in challenging Provide CCP representatives
performance management – Leading the search and – Advises the Directors on
management’s thinking and with an awareness of Board
of the Executive team. appointment process and Board practice and
proposals, and fostering open and business priorities and the
makes the recommendation procedures and corporate
and constructive debate Further details on how the impact on business practices.
to the Board for a new Chair. governance matters.
among Directors. Executive Committee support
– Acting as an additional point – All directors and senior
– Maintaining internal and external the Group Chief Executive can
of contact for shareholders. executives have access
relationships with key be found on page 63.
– Maintaining an understanding to the advice of the Group
stakeholders, and
of shareholder issues and Company Secretary and is
communicating investors’
concerns through meetings a point of contact for
views to the Board.
with shareholders and shareholders on all corporate
– Organising periodic monitoring
briefings from the Group governance matters.
and evaluation, including
Company Secretary.
externally facilitated evaluation,
of the performance of the
Board, its committees and
individual Directors.
– Leading on succession planning
for the Board and its
committees, ensuring
appointments reflect diverse
cultures, skills and experiences.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 63 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 61.
Corporate governance report continued
Governance The Board is committed to maintaining the highest standards of corporate governance in the management
of its affairs. A detailed governance framework ensures that the Board has the right level of oversight for
matters that are material to the Group.
framework.
The Board sets the Company’s purpose, values, strategy and long-term objectives. It is also responsible for the Group’s corporate governance activities,
risk management and financial performance and the framework is designed to improve the Board’s effectiveness and to support its oversight
of the senior leadership team as it delivers the Company’s strategy. To ensure the framework’s optimal effectiveness, it has a clear division of
responsibilities, appropriate distribution of workload to the Board Committee and highly committed directors who are motivated to carry out
their roles and responsibilities for the success of the Company.
Board
The Board has collective responsibility to promote the long-term, sustainable
success of the Group, ensuring due regard is paid to the interests of its stakeholders
Board Committees Audit Nominations and Remuneration Sustainability
T T
The Board is supported by the activities of its Committee Governance Committee Committee Committee
Committees, which ensure that specific matters Chair Karen Whitworth Chair Gerry Murphy Chair Alison Platt* Chair Stewart Gilliland
receive the right level of attention and Oversees the integrity of the financial Reviews the size, composition, tenure Determines remuneration policy and Provides oversight and effective
consideration. In addition, each Committee works reporting and audit process, and and skills of the Board. Leads the packages for Executive Directors governance on the Group’s planet
in collaboration with other Board Committees to the maintenance of sound internal process for appointments to the and senior managers, having regard plan pillars, community and human
oversee, support and determine specific matters. controls and risk management Board and makes recommendations to pay across the Group and the rights initiatives to support the
systems. The Committee monitors to ensure plans are in place for views of stakeholders. Sets the delivery of the Group’s purpose,
the effectiveness of internal orderly succession to both the Board broad structure for the Company’s strategic priorities and sustainability
and external audit and reviews and senior management positions, Remuneration Policy and determines objectives. The Committee oversees
concerns about financial fraud and and oversees a diverse succession the remuneration of the Chair, the the Group’s social and environmental
Matters considered by each of the Committees are whistleblowing. pipeline. The Committee also has Executive team and the Company obligations, including climate-related
set out in the Committees’ terms of reference In addition, it reviews external a role to ensure that the Company Secretary. The Committee is also matters, and is responsible for
which can be found at www.tescoplc.com. sustainability-related disclosures is managed to high standards of responsible for reviewing workforce monitoring progress towards our
and sustainability KPIs and reviews corporate governance. remuneration and the alignment commitments. It works in conjunction
management’s process for of incentives and rewards with the with the Remuneration Committee
identifying sustainability risks Company’s culture. on sustainability-related performance
and internal controls. * Melissa Bethell will become Chair of the objectives for executive leaders
Remuneration Committee at the and with the Audit Committee on
conclusion of the 2025 AGM. sustainability reporting.
Each of the Board Committees meet at least four times per year. Following each Committee meeting, the Committee Chair provides the Board with
a written and verbal update on recent Committee activities.
Disclosure Committee
The Board delegates responsibility to the Disclosure Committee to consider timely and accurate disclosure of sensitive information.
Details of Board Committee membership and Committee activity during the year is set out in the Committee reports on pages 72 to 122.
Cross-Committee memberships Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Sustainability Committee
The table provides details of the number of Audit Committee (total no. of members: 5) 3 2
Non-executive Directors representing multiple
Committees. Cross-Committee membership Remuneration Committee (total no. of members: 5) 3 3
provides visibility and awareness of matters Sustainability Committee (total no. of members: 5) 2 3
relevant across the Committees.
Note: all Non-executive Directors are members of the Nominations and Governance Committee.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 64 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 62.
Corporate governance report continued
Governance framework continued
Role and operations of the Board
Summary of schedule of matters Board purpose and How the Board operates During the year, Board meetings have
T T
reserved for the Board responsibilities The Board and its Committees have a commenced with a meeting of the Chair
and Non-executive Directors only.
The Board: The Board is responsible for setting the forward-looking programme of agenda items
– Sets and monitors the Group’s purpose, overall strategy of the Group and remains scheduled for discussion throughout the In the event of an urgent, business critical
strategy, values and culture. focused on delivering on our four strategic year to ensure operational and financial matter requiring Board approval in
– Sets the long-term plan and budget. priorities: magnetic value for customers; performance, strategy which includes accordance with the schedule of reserved
– Monitors net zero commitments for Scope 1, 2 easily the most convenient; I love my Tesco our sustainability targets, risk, culture matters for the Board, or under the Group
and 3. Clubcard; and save to invest. Sustainability is and stakeholders are discussed at the delegation of authority, which arises between
– Oversees risk management and internal controls. built into our purpose, strategy and business appropriate time. A regular review of the scheduled Board meetings, a sub-Committee
– Determines the nature and extent of emerging plans, ensuring the risks and opportunities forward planners is undertaken and the Chair of the Board is formed, the quorum for which
and principal risks. associated with climate change are of the Board, or relevant Committee, ensures is any two of the Chair, Group Chief Executive
– Oversees implementation of the governance embedded in all we do. The Group is that sufficient time is allowed for discussion or Senior Independent Director. Any approvals
framework. committed to operating in a responsible and and debate on the topics scheduled. They granted through the Board sub-Committee
– Monitors financial reporting, controls sustainable way which reflects our values. To encourage constructive discussion and are noted by the Board at its following meeting.
and disclosures. ensure climate considerations are integrated challenge during meetings.
The Group provides access, at its expense,
– Approves changes to corporate and capital within our governance framework, roles and Standard paper templates are reviewed on to the services of independent professional
structure. responsibilities are set out in a schedule of a regular basis to ensure Directors receive advisors in order to assist Directors in their
– Sets the dividend policy and approves any matters reserved for the Board and in the high-quality, clear and timely information role. A Directors’ and Officers’ liability
declarations. Committees’ terms of reference. to support their oversight, challenge and insurance policy is maintained for all
– Approves significant capital expenditure, The Board has collective responsibility for decision making in a standard format. Directors and each Director has the benefit
borrowing and material contracts.
– Approves major acquisitions, mergers, joint promoting the long-term sustainable success If Directors have concerns about the of a deed of indemnity.
ventures and disposals. of the Group, taking into consideration the Company or a proposed action which cannot The table on page 59 shows the
– Approves changes to the pension scheme views of, and impact to its stakeholders, and be resolved, it is recorded in the Board attendance at the scheduled Board
arrangements. ensuring that it operates within a framework minutes. In addition, upon resignation, meetings. Attendance at Committee
– Reviews and approves remuneration policies of effective controls. It has ultimate Non-executive Directors are encouraged to meetings can be found in the relevant
and share schemes. responsibility for ensuring adequate resource provide a written statement of any concerns Committee reports on pages 72 to 122.
is available to meet agreed objectives and for circulation to the Board. No such
The full schedule of matters reserved for strategy, ensuring that resources are concerns were raised in FY 24/25.
the Board can be found on our website at responsibly and effectively deployed.
www.tescoplc.com. The Board held six scheduled meetings during
The Board has adopted a formal schedule of the year and additional strategy meetings at
matters reserved, detailing matters that are which senior managers presented on each of
considered of significance to the Group owing our business areas. In the rare event of a
to their strategic, financial or reputational Director being unable to attend all or part of
importance or consequences. a Board or Committee meeting, the Chair of
More information on the purpose and the respective meeting discusses the matters
culture, strategic priorities, risk proposed with the Director concerned,
management and internal controls wherever possible, seeking their support and
framework can be found on pages 10, feedback accordingly. The Chair subsequently
16 to 17, 40 to 47 and 64 to 65. represents those views at the meeting. In
addition, the Group Chief Executive provides
updates to the Board at regular intervals
between Board meetings to report on
business performance and provide relevant
market insights.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 65 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 63.
Corporate governance report continued
Governance Framework continued
Executive Committee
Biographies for each of the Executive Committee members can be found on our website
The Board delegates responsibility to the Group Chief Executive for overseeing the day-to-day at www.tescoplc.com which sets out their roles, responsibilities and experience.
operations of the Group, formulating, implementing and overseeing the Group’s strategic objectives
as approved by the Board. The Group’s delegation of authority, matters reserved for the Board and
There are a number of executive level committees established to support the Executive Committee
Committees’ terms of reference provide a clear direction on oversight and decision making. The
in the delivery of their role. Some of the key executive level committees are detailed below.
Group Chief Executive is supported by the Executive Committee in carrying out this role. The
Executive Committee comprises Ken Murphy and Imran Nawaz, Executive Directors of the Board, Executive level committees
CEOs of our regional businesses and senior management in key functional roles detailed below.
These executive level committees provide updates to the Board, Audit, Sustainability and Executive
Committee on matters of significance.
Ken Murphy Imran Nawaz Natasha Adams
Group Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer CEO, Ireland and Northern Ireland
Member since October 2020 Member since May 2021 Member since June 2018 Group risk and Planet T Cyber and privacy
Matthew Barnes Guus Dekkers Christine Heffernan compliance Responsible for reviewing Responsible for ensuring
CEO, UK Chief Technology Officer Group Communications Director Responsible for: the and monitoring the climate a comprehensive
Member since March 2024 Member since May 2021 Member since March 2019 oversight of key risks on strategy against agreed understanding of the
behalf of the Executive performance measures and potential cyber exposure of
Kay Majid¹ Ashwin Prasad Matt Simister Committee; evaluating recommending the actions the Group and the effective
Group General Counsel Chief Commercial Officer CEO, Central Europe and proposing policies; needed to achieve the oversight and governance of
Member since July 2024 Member since September 2020 Member since April 2017 monitoring processes to Group’s net zero objectives. cyber risk management
Emma Taylor Andrew Yaxley control business, Three steering groups plans. A dedicated cyber
Chief People Officer CEO, Booker operational and compliance underpin the security programme has
Member since March 2022 Member since July 2018 risks faced by the Group; implementation and been developed with clearly
and assessing emerging compliance component defined governance,
1. In July 2024, Adrian Morris left the business and was succeeded by Kay Majid. risks. It reports twice-yearly of our planet governance oversight and structured
The Executive Committee has 11 scheduled meetings per year which are minuted, together with to the Executive Committee structure and feed into training processes. Matters
more informal weekly check-in meetings. and Audit Committee. the planet committee. of significance are raised at
the Board, Audit Committee
During the year, the Executive Committee played a key role in driving the Group’s strategy and and Executive Committee
objectives forward. as appropriate.
The Executive Committee’s key responsibilities include: T
– Making recommendations to the Board and implementing the objectives and strategy set
by the Board.
More information on the Group’s sustainability governance can be found in the Sustainability report
– Developing the Group’s budget and long term plan for consideration by the Board.
on our website at www.tescoplc.com.
– Supporting the delivery of the Group’s strategic priorities.
– Developing the sustainability agenda to balance short, medium and long-term objectives.
– Review of capital investments required to achieve the net zero objectives, ensuring that
the investments are included in the long term plan and annual budget.
– Ensuring identification, management and monitoring of risk and effective internal controls.
– Approving material contracts and transactions in accordance with the delegation of
authority framework.
– Monitoring the people agenda across the Group including: culture; succession planning;
talent management; and diversity, equity and inclusion.
The Executive Committee terms of reference are reviewed on an annual basis.
These can be found on our website at www.tescoplc.com.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 66 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 64.
Corporate governance report continued
Governance framework continued
Spotlight on:
Did you know:
Risk.
The risk management
T
framework provides
Risk management and internal Board clear processes for
Sets the risk culture and
control framework risk identification,
risk appetite, ensuring
The Board has overall responsibility for internal it is aligned to strategy. assessment and
controls and risk management processes. It has Defines the nature and extent
of emerging and principal risks. management.
established a risk management framework
to manage and report the risks faced by the Is responsible for establishing The approach is
an effective internal
business. A strong risk culture is at the heart
of our risk management framework with clear control framework. supplemented by red
risk ownership and proactive leadership. Audit Committee team testing, the
The responsibility for identifying, assessing, Supports the Board to assess
escalating and managing risks resides with and monitor significant risks, development of
Executive Committee
management at a functional, business unit ensuring the appropriate
and executive level. The Audit Committee, opp E o n r s t u u r n e it s i e th s a a t r e ri s e k ff s e a c n t d iv ely mitigations and approach to resilience plans and
on behalf of the Board, undertakes an managed across the Group identification is in place. assurance outputs
annual effectiveness assessment of the risk with the support of the Monitors the effectiveness of
management framework, with regular focus Group risk and the internal control framework from second and
on specific emerging risk themes and a review compliance committee. Governance of and assurance.
third lines.
across all principal risks, twice a year, which risk management Reviews and approves of audit
also supports the external reporting process, and internal control and assurance policies.
see page 86. The Group risk and compliance
framework
committee is responsible for the oversight of
key risks on behalf of the Executive Committee.
Our approach to risk allows us to adapt to
changing internal and external factors through
the three lines of defence model and combines
the top-down with bottom-up risk management Remuneration
approach to ensure the Group can respond to a Committee
continuously changing environment. Ensures performance-related
Sustainability Committee
elements of remuneration have
The Board, Audit Committee and Executive Monitors KPIs relating to
appropriate metrics and targets,
Committee undertake deep dives into our sustainability and climate
ensuring that incentive arrangements
principal risks periodically during the year. objectives, highlighting any do not take inappropriate risks.
potential risks to the Audit
The remuneration policy has
Committee and Board.
malus and clawback
provisions in the event
of behavioural risk.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 67 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 65.
Corporate governance report continued
Purpose How does the Board monitor culture?
The Board receives detailed reports on a wide variety of topics to allow it to assess culture within
the Group, to ensure it is aligned with our purpose and supports the delivery of the strategy:
and culture.
People updates
People updates include metrics and KPIs on senior management succession planning, talent
management and monitoring progress against our diversity, equity and inclusion (DE&I) strategy.
Culture More information on the Group’s diversity, equity and inclusion strategy can be found on
page 23 and page 75.
The Board has overall responsibility for establishing and monitoring the Company’s purpose, values
and behaviours, ensuring that the Group is appropriately managed and achieves its objectives in a way Assessment of executive performance
that is supported by the right culture. We aim to create a positive culture at Tesco which aligns our
purpose, values and win together behaviours. Our clear diversity, equity and inclusion strategy Assessment of executive performance to ensure it is aligned to the strategic drivers, KPIs and
strives to create an inclusive workplace, where colleagues feel welcome and able to be themselves. win together behaviours. The Board and Remuneration Committee monitor the outturns of Your
Contribution for Executive Committee members and senior management. Your Contribution is the way
Operating within this culture supports the delivery of our strategy and our long-term sustainable
performance is measured for all colleagues around the Group to drive the culture we want to see, and
success, while generating value for shareholders. Our purpose and values are fundamental to the
a newly introduced Line Manager Standard ensures anyone with management responsibilities is
way we act and drive the Group’s culture. Our values and win together behaviours ensure that the
measured against a clear set of expectations.
Tesco culture is embedded throughout the organisation.
Supported by the Executive Committee
Supported by the Executive Committee, the results of the colleague survey are analysed and an action
Our Serving our customers, communities and planet a little better every day plan is developed to address any issues. Additionally, the results of supplier engagement surveys
purpose means we always keep customers at the heart of what we do, while also reflecting are analysed and reviewed by the Board and Executive Committee. An action plan is developed for
our responsibilities to the communities we serve and to society more broadly. improvements required.
Colleague Contribution Panels
CCPs, which represent the workforce across all business areas of the Group, are hosted by an
Independent Non-executive Director (the Workforce Engagement Host). Each forum meets twice during
the year and the Workforce Engagement Host provides feedback to the Board following each meeting.
More information on our CCPs can be found on page 69.
Our
We treat people Every little help
values No one tries harder
how they want makes a big Our Code of Business Conduct
for our customers
to be treated difference
Our Code of Business Conduct defines the standards and behaviours expected of colleagues and is
Our three values underpin our purpose, setting out how we work together as a team supported by Group policies and mandatory training which is completed by all colleagues in the first
and guiding the decisions and choices we make across the Group. five business days after joining, and on an annual basis, to reinforce the importance of these standards.
The results of the annual compliance programme are reported to the Audit Committee for review.
Visit www.tescoplc.com to view Tesco’s Code of Business Conduct.
Win
together Believe in Stay curious: Be brave: Live 20/80: Protector Line
behaviours B e u a i c ld h in o g t t h r e u r s : t S d e i e ff k e in re g n n t e i w de a a n s d rig D ht o t in h g in t g h a e n d f P e r w io t r h it i i n si g n s g t t h h a e t Protector Line provides colleagues and suppliers with a completely independent support service where
in teams and and listening to creating safe will make they have the ability to raise concerns regarding possible misconduct and breaches of the Tesco’s Code of
enabling end-to- every voice in spaces where the biggest Business Conduct. The whistleblowing policy sets out how matters of concern can be reported and explains
end collaboration the room. colleagues can difference. the protection and support that will be given. The Audit Committee provides oversight of the effectiveness
across Tesco. test, learn and of the Group’s internal whistleblowing policy and the independent Protector Line arrangements.
speak up.
All of this allows the Board to assess progress against strategy and provides oversight of the culture
Our win together behaviours underpin our values. we operate in.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 68 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 66.
Corporate governance report continued
Performance review.
Spotlight on:
Effectiveness.
The Chair and the Board continually work to strengthen and enhance the performance, skills and FY 24/25 External Board effectiveness review
experience of the Board to align with Group strategy. To ensure the Board remains effective, a
performance review is carried out each year to review the effectiveness of the Board, its Committees
and Directors. These reviews operate on a three-yearly cycle as shown below. Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 4
Scope of Attendance Discuss findings Development
effectiveness at meetings of action plan
Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 review
Internal effectiveness Internal effectiveness Externally facilitated
review via questionnaire review via questionnaire effectiveness review An overview of the process is set out below:
led by the Chair led by the Chair
June–August – selection of external effectiveness review provider. Discussions with Chair,
Group Chief Executive, Senior Independent Director and Group Company Secretary on
The Chair’s review is undertaken on an annual basis and is always led by the Senior Independent Director.
scope and deliverables.
The external effectiveness review offers an independent review of the Board’s performance. This year,
September – attendance and observation of Board and Committee meetings.
Calibro Consult Limited was appointed to facilitate the external review. Calibro Consult Limited has no
other connection to Tesco or any of its Directors. During 2025/26 an internal effectiveness review will October–December – individual interviews with Independent Non-executive Directors
be undertaken. and Executive Committee members.
Progress against actions identified through the FY 23/24 internal performance review are detailed below:
November – attendance and observation at the strategy Board session and Committee meetings.
Action identified Progress against action January – draft report on findings.
Continue to review Board composition, The Nominations and Governance Committee reviewed February – discussions with Chair on findings and presentation to the Board.
with a focus on strengthening the Non-executive Director skills and expertise through
expertise and skills required to deliver succession plans, executive and senior management roles. April – development of action plan to measure progress against key objectives.
the Group’s long-term objectives Lygon Group were instructed to perform a search for an
and opportunities to further experienced CFO to join the Board and Audit Committee
Focus of effectiveness review Actions identified
enhance diversity. and we announced the appointment of Chris Kennedy in
December 2024. All Independent Non-executive Directors – Purpose, culture, values and behaviours Continue to:
were appointed to Nominations and Governance Committee – Strategy and future growth ambitions
providing oversight and input to succession plans. – Approach to sustainability and inclusion – develop and implement the longer-term
strategy and growth ambitions;
Continue to shape the Board agenda Forward planners for the Board and Committees reviewed – Key challenges for the Board and – shape the agenda and Board focus with
to concentrate on the longer-term to enhance stakeholder reporting to the Board. Additional management team linked to the strategy
a balance of operational oversight and
strategy with a focus on growth, net strategy sessions scheduled. – Board composition, dynamics, operations
strategic development;
zero commitments, the customer and structures
– enhance our strategic enablers through
experience and technology. – Internal culture
technology and our people with a focus
Continue to review Group performance Board views sought on 1:1 basis on longer-term trends – External factors and the changing on succession and talent planning,
in a changing market and the changing and opportunities and discussed at strategy meeting. business environment capability, diversity and expertise; and
needs of our customers. The Nominations and Governance – evolve the appetite for risk in alignment
Continue to develop and test Risk Appetite Framework reviewed and developed. Committee will review the action plan to with the longer-term strategy.
risk appetite. Additional risk deep dives scheduled at the Audit Committee track progress against the actions identified.
at which all Board members were invited to attend.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 69 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 67.
Corporate governance report continued
Board
activity.
During discussions at Board meetings, the views of our stakeholders form an integral part of the Board’s
decision making. Key topics are reviewed, discussed and debated during the year by the Board to Strategy and purpose Strategic drivers
support Directors in their oversight and provide the opportunity to challenge executive management.
Each year the Board spends a few focused days immersing itself in
the Group strategy. This involves meeting colleagues and suppliers,
discussing the operational alignment with strategy, and horizon
scanning impact, risks and opportunities for the business. During the
Spotlight on: year, the Board hosted two strategy workshops to further develop Magnetic value for
customers: Re-defining
the longer-term strategy with a focus on customer strategy,
value to become the
digitisation and personalisation.
P lanning. customer’s favourite
Additionally, the Board receives strategic updates throughout the
year with the aim of gaining a better understanding of market trends,
technology developments, innovation and people strategies to
Crisis management simulation support the long-term planning and strategic direction of the Group.
The Board regularly reviews the progress of the Group’s strategic I love my Tesco
As a large business, we make sure that we Our response to a crisis is guided by our drivers and long-term plan, which represents a strong three-year Clubcard: Creating a
are well prepared to respond to incidents purpose and values, and by our legal plan delivering growth and sustainable value for stakeholders. competitive advantage
at all levels of the organisation. Every year, and regulatory obligations. Our guiding
leaders from across the business are invited principles in a crisis are: prioritising the Having a clear strategic direction for the short, medium and longer through our powerful
to take part in a series of crisis simulations. safety and security of our customers and term, and understanding our stakeholder expectations, is vital for digital capability
colleagues; maintaining the supply of food the delivery of our strategic priorities.
In February 2025, the Board took part in
one of these exercises alongside the and essential products and services across Updates are provided by the Group Chief Executive, the Chief
Executive Committee and the UK leadership our footprint; and safeguarding our Financial Officer and other members of senior management in
team. The aim of the exercise was to financial viability. respect of all material matters, to ensure the delivery of strategic Easily the most
rehearse the Group’s response and ensure The February exercise saw our Board, drivers and KPIs in line with our culture, purpose and values. convenient: Serving
that all participants understand their roles Executive Committee and UK leadership Technology updates provide an overview of operational stability, customers wherever,
in a crisis. All the exercises are based on team demonstrating a high level of maturity technical capability, transformation, cyber security and the use of AI whenever and however
fictitious but plausible scenarios that in crisis preparedness, and has led to in our business. Our dedicated cyber security programme has clearly they want to be served
could impact Tesco such as cyber attacks, further initiatives on scenario planning defined governance, oversight and structured training processes.
disruptive geopolitical events, natural aligned to our principal risks. Updates provide the Board with oversight of the risks and
disasters or civil unrest and are kept secret opportunities available. Improvements in technology continue to
from the exercise participants until a few support the delivery of the Group’s strategic priorities. We continue
days before the exercise, to make it as to embed AI into our business to optimise operations to better serve Save to invest:
realistic as possible. our customers, communities and planet. As new techniques and Significant opportunities
uses emerge, we are exploring how they could be adopted to deliver to simplify, become more
on our purpose. Through our AI governance framework, we ensure productive and reduce
that any AI technologies utilised by the business are fair, safe, costs
Our response to a crisis is guided by our purpose and values, transparent, explainable, accountable and sustainable, and that
they comply with existing legislation and any emerging legislation.
and by our legal and regulatory obligations.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 70 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 68.
Corporate governance report continued
Board activity continued
Operational performance Financial performance, risk The Board, supported by the Executive
Did you know: Business updates from UK, ROI, Central Europe, management and internal controls Committee, has visibility of the property strategy
and approves any significant capital expenditure
Booker, dunnhumby and Tesco Mobile provide Through the Chief Financial Officer’s report, the
under that strategy. The annual fair value
essential oversight of the operational Board regularly reviews the financial position,
The Board’s forward property valuations provide oversight of the
performance of the Group, highlighting going concern and viability of the Group, with
property portfolio, ensuring the portfolio is
planner ensures that opportunities, challenges and risks faced by the updates on progress against the Group budget
properly managed and accounted for.
different business areas, insight into how our and the long term plan, plus a detailed overview
there is sufficient time different markets operate and the differing of each of the business areas including Governance and culture
for discussion and needs of our stakeholders. Trading updates to performance against each business unit budget, Reports from the Group Company Secretary
the Board provide insight into managing capacity sales, profit, cash flow and capital expenditure.
at each Board meeting update the Board on
debate on topics through peak trading, stock management and Updates provide the Board with oversight of
governance-related matters, which have
resourcing. This supports the Board in identifying the progress against the Big 6 and the key
scheduled and growth opportunities and the delivery of the performance indicators across the Group. included over the year: regulatory changes; the
share buyback programme; Non-executive
Group’s strategic drivers.
provides an More information on the Big 6 and key Director fees; share forfeiture programme;
The Board places significant importance on performance indicators can be found modern slavery; material litigation; review and
opportunity to deep
looking after the safety of colleagues, customers on page 19. approval of statutory reporting and shareholder
dive into matters and anyone else impacted by our business. documentation; the annual renewal of directors’
Health and safety updates focus on people The Board reviews the most significant or and officers’ insurance and the review and
relating to each of our safety, the safety framework and strategy, principal risks facing the Group. Having the right approval of material contracts taking into
stakeholder groups progress against safety priorities, opportunities systems and controls in place across the Group consideration the associated operational and
for improvement, the volume and severity of facilitates effective management and sound financial benefits, risks and opportunities, and
during the year. injuries and cost of injury claims across all decision making. Efficient internal reporting, consideration of the impact on all stakeholders.
business areas. effective internal controls, and oversight of
current and emerging risk themes are embedded More information on how the Board
Throughout the year, Directors, individually
into our business processes and are monitors culture can be found on page 65.
and collectively, explored specific operational
fundamental to Tesco’s governance framework.
activities through presentations, meetings and
The Board has visibility of the strategic, financial,
site visits, giving them the opportunity to meet
operational, change and compliance risks facing
with senior management to gain insight into the
the business. The Board is kept abreast of
business operations and the challenges they
developments through the work of the Audit
face. This enables the Non-executive Directors
Committee, to ensure it has dedicated oversight
to engage with colleagues from across the
and the relevant mitigations are put in place.
Group, giving them a greater understanding
of colleague views and provides a true More information on the principal risks and
understanding of the operations. Directors uncertainties and the risk management
have visited a number of our business functions, and internal control framework can be
including Tesco Business Services in India, found on pages 40 to 47 and page 64.
distribution centres and supplier operations.
The Board reviews and approves the capital
allocation framework, dividend policy and
shareholder returns and the management of the
Group’s debt capital markets activities, including
any new issuance of bonds under the euro
medium term note programme. Oversight of
these activities ensures that future liabilities
can be met.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 71 ---
SSttrraatteeggiicc rreeppoorrtt Governance Financial statements Additional information 69.
Corporate governance report continued
The Board in action continued
Stakeholder engagement Throughout the year, regular dialogue between
our Group Chief Executive, Chief Financial
Engagement with all our stakeholders is led by
our Executive team. The Board’s forward planner Officer and senior management, and our Spotlight on:
institutional investors, potential investors and
schedules matters for discussion by the Board
analysts has taken place, including through
and ensures that the Board has the opportunity
calls, and individual and group meetings, with C olleagues.
to have a deep dive into each of our stakeholder
a particular focus on themes such as the
groups during the year, providing the opportunity
consumer and market environment, strategic
for directors to discuss, challenge and create
priorities and capital allocation.
opportunities in line with strategy. This facilitates
Colleague Contribution Panels
the Board’s understanding of stakeholder views, It is the Board’s intention to continue to pay
market trends and challenges in light of the a progressive dividend, broadly targeting The CCPs provide a platform for colleagues In addition, management went through some
Group’s strategic priorities and sustainability a payout of around 50% of earnings. Our to bring new ideas to the table, including of the key elements of the Every Voice Matters
objectives. Each decision taken by the Board long-term plan sets out our growth ambitions improvements for communications and colleague engagement survey and actions
aligns to our culture and values, and considers over the next three years, including continued colleague benefits. The forum facilitates open captured at the previous CCP.
the benefits, risks, financial implications and delivery for all stakeholders and ongoing cash discussions and ensures that the Board is
impact on relevant stakeholders. The Board returns to our shareholders. aware of the views of the workforce. Having a Themes raised by representatives included
r a c e n o v d ll i e e a a w r g e s u a t e s h a e fo n r r d e i s m s u u p l p t r s p o , l v i m e e r a m s n e u a n r g v t e e b m y a s e s . n e t d a o c n ti o c n u s p t l o a m ns e r, W a re s e t a u c n r o n o n s n . t g i B n o y u i n e A g p t o a ri n l s d 2 e 0 e c 2 r t 6 i h t , i e c w a b e l u d p y r l b a iv a n e c r t k o o p f b r s u o h y g a r b a r a e m c h m k o l e d e r d f d o e e r s e e i p g a e n c r a h t u e C n d d C N e P r o p s n t r - a o e n v x d id e in e c g u s t c o iv o f e n s p t D i e n ir c u e i i f c t i y c t , o w a r l o ( l t o r h w k e f s o H a r o c e st - ) p h f p o e a r r o y a m d l a t u h n o c i d r e t e r r p e p f l o w a ro o c a d e d rd u m , , f c e l i t e n n x v c t i a . b r r e P l i e a e o s t w s y e i o t d a i r v n k a e d i v n f a e b g il e e a a d t b n t b i d e l a i r t t c y h r k e e o g w f n i o a e s n e a d l
Our commitment to our customers extends £1.45bn worth of shares. related matters by the Board and supports received on the introduction of virtual GP
b w e e y s o e n r d v e o . u O r u s r to p r a e r s t , n a e n r d s h in ip to s w ev it e h r y s u c p o p m li m er u s n a i r t e y O an u d r s c u o s m ta m in it a m bl e e n w t a to y r o e p f e le r c a t t s in o g u in r v a a r lu e e sp s; o w ns e i b k l n e o w c B o o l a le rd ag m ue a s tt d e e rs v e a l n o d p b a u b s e in t e te s r s a p w ri a o r r e it n ie e s s . s of s th e e rv f i r c e e e s f a r n u d it m in e it n ia t t a i l v h e e a a n l d th i m su p p r p o o ve rt d s ervices,
vitally important in delivering great value and we can make a big difference. We aim to be During FY 24/25, five CCPs were held to discounts in Central Europe.
great quality products for our customers. carbon neutral across our own operations discuss topical issues and matters of The Board receives updates directly from each
Our work on human rights is fully integrated by 2035 and are working with suppliers and importance, with a focus on: health and Host, allowing for more informed decisions
within our operations, forming a key part of our partners to deliver our goal to be net zero from wellbeing; executive remuneration policy; to be made in the long term in the interests
broader commitment to being a responsible farm to fork by 2050. We will continue to deliver and would you recommend Tesco as a place of the Company and its stakeholders.
and sustainable business. We will always look action on climate through our planet plan across to shop. Each Host provided highlights of the
to work with suppliers to meet our responsible all our businesses. Board’s activities, which included: our growth In addition to the CCPs, we have engaged with
sourcing and ethical requirements. The strategy; progress against the six pillars of contractors through the Contingent Workers
Sustainability Committee provides oversight More information on our stakeholder the planet plan; sale of the Group’s Banking Survey to obtain their views as part of
on human rights matters. engagement and climate commitments operations; an overview of our Chair and capturing wider workforce engagement.
can be found on pages 20 to 22 and pages Senior Independent Director induction Contractors highly value Tesco’s collaborative
During the year, the Board met with a number 31 to 35. programme; details of Board visits environment, flexibility and strong
of suppliers, which included a Board visit to undertaken during the year; everyone’s management support. They seek better
one of our suppliers, to deepen the Board’s welcome strategy; and an overview of Board communication, aligned benefits
understanding of the challenges faced and governance and the Board’s future focus. and streamlined administrative processes.
support that can be provided.
More information on the Sustainability
UK, ROI and subsidiaries CCP
Committee supplier visit can be found
(Host: Carolyn Fairbairn)
on page 78.
Board
Central Europe CCP
(Host: Alison Platt¹)
1. Melissa Bethell will take on the role of Central Europe CCP Host in June 2025.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 72 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 70.
Corporate governance report continued
Section 172 statement.
The Board recognises that stakeholder
Section 172 (a)–(f) additional information Pages Section 172 (a)–(f) additional information Pages
engagement and understanding the
consequences of any decision in the long term A. Chair’s statement and 8, 9 and D. Our market context 14 and 15
are vital to the sustainable success of the Group Chief Executive’s review 11 to 13
Planet, Nature and TCFD 31 to 39,
Company. The differing interests of stakeholders Consequences of Impact of our
Our market context and Our 14 to 17 48 and 49
are considered in the business decisions any decisions in operations on the
strategic priorities
we make across Tesco at all levels and are the long term community and Stakeholder engagement 22
reinforced by the Board. However, it is not always Key performance indicators and 18 and 19 environment
Board activity and Section 172 67 to 69 and
possible to provide positive outcomes for all Our business model
statement 70
stakeholders, and sometimes the Board has
Longer term viability statement 50 and 51
to make decisions based on balancing competing Sustainability Committee report 76 to 79
stakeholder priorities, while ensuring it is in Board activity and Section 172 67 to 69 and
the best interests of the Group. Through statement 70 E. Our purpose framework and 10 and 18
engagement with our key stakeholders, the Our business model
Board understands these competing priorities. B. Key performance indicators 19 Maintain a Governance framework 61 to 63
In addition, the interests and views of Tesco Everyone’s welcome 23 reputation
pensioners and our relationship with regulators Interests of the for high Purpose and culture 65
and NGOs are taken into consideration. employees Stakeholder engagement 20 and 69 standards of Board activity and Section 172 67 to 69 and
Details of our key stakeholders are set out Corporate governance report 65 and 69 business conduct statement 70
on pages 20 to 22.
Nominations and Governance 72 to 75 F. Our strategic priorities and Key 16, 17 and 19
In performing their duties during the year, the
Committee performance indicators
Directors have had regard for the matters set
Acting fairly
out in section 172 of the Companies Act 2006. Directors’ remuneration report 91 to 95, 101 Board activity and Section 172 67 to 69 and
between
Examples of how the Directors have oversight to 106 and 117 statement 70
members of
of stakeholder matters and had regard for these
Directors’ report 239 the Company Stakeholder engagement 21, 22
matters when making decisions is included
and 69
throughout this Annual Report. C. Chair’s statement and Group 8, 9 and
Chief Executive’s review 11 to 13
Directors have acted in a way they consider to Foster business More information on the Board’s activities and how we engage with our
be in good faith and to be most likely to promote relationships Our market context and Our 14 to 17 stakeholders can be found on pages 20 to 22 and pages 67 to 69.
the long-term success of the Company. strategic priorities
with suppliers,
This statement is incorporated by reference customers Key performance indicators and 18 and 19
into the Strategic report. and others Our business model
Principal risks and uncertainties 40 to 49
Stakeholder engagement 20 to 22
and 69
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 73 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 71.
Corporate governance report continued
Section 172 Statement continued
Key strategic decisions
Completion of the sale of the Banking operations to Barclays
As reported over the year, the Board approved the sale of its Banking operations to Barclays and entered into an exclusive 10-year partnership providing customers with access to Tesco-branded banking
products and services, combining Tesco’s market-leading brand, physical and digital reach, and relentless customer focus with Barclays’ deep financial services capabilities and expertise in commercial
partnerships. The partnership also creates the opportunity to develop new and innovative products with Barclays under the Tesco Bank brand. Through the partnership it allows us to offer customers
Tesco-branded banking products and services, while continuing to benefit from the Tesco Clubcard, and exploring other opportunities that offer value to Tesco customers. We have retained all the existing
insurance and money services activities, including ATMs, travel money and gift cards. The remaining activities have lower capital requirements than the Banking operations, and are profitable businesses with a
strong connection to the core retail offer. Following the completion in November 2024, the Board announced its intention to return £700m to shareholders via an incremental share buyback. When considering
the strategic partnership and sale, the Board discussed a number of factors including those affecting our stakeholders.
Strategic priorities
Our strategic priorities ensure that we focus on offering great value, quality and convenience for our customers, while rewarding loyalty. Through our colleagues, our reach and our supplier relationships, we are
well placed to serve our customers wherever, whenever and however they need us. Our strategy guides us to deliver top-line growth, grow profit and generate cash and in doing so, deliver for all our stakeholders.
Over the past 18 months, the Board has spent significant time working alongside the Executive Committee to shape the longer-term strategy and growth opportunities. This is being achieved through: expanding
our thinking; gaining insight into how others utilise technology; reviewing key trends; performing strategic diagnostics; challenging our ways of thinking; and considering the future needs of customers.
The Board has focused on key trends, the future consumer, AI, geopolitics, climate change and technological advances to support efficiency. We have made good progress on key initiatives to support our
strategic priorities. We continue to build our capabilities to support delivery of our longer-term objectives through investments in our people and technology, including robotic automation to streamline
operations, improve efficiency and support our commitment to deliver a seamless shopping experience for our customers. We have partnered with some of the UK’s leading healthcare companies as part
of a new store concept that gives customers easy and convenient access to even more high-quality health services. With our network of stores and pharmacies in communities all over the UK, we are uniquely
placed to help make food and healthcare accessible to our customers. Sustainability initiatives are now well integrated across our strategic priorities. Investment in Booker has supported the growing demand
for delivery with the opening of new catering hubs, improved availability and greater customer satisfaction.
Through this process, the Board has considered the views and impacts on all stakeholders, in particular the needs of our customers, how we support our suppliers through long-term strategic partnerships,
the impact of a rapidly evolving retail environment and supporting colleagues across our workforce. Through regular updates and feedback on management engagement with stakeholders, the Board has
oversight of stakeholder views. More information can be found in Stakeholder engagement on pages 20 to 22, Board activity on pages 67 to 69 and the Board’s visit to Cranswick on page 78.
Throughout 25/26, the Board will continue to develop initiatives to deliver the longer-term strategy through greater focus of key areas in scheduled Board meetings, additional strategy workshops, advice
from external experts and Board visits to strengthen our capability and strategic partnerships.
Personalisation Retail media
Our ambition is to deliver the most helpful personalised shopping experience for customers through We are expanding our retail media channel via the Tesco Media and Insight Platform which will result
healthy swaps, nudges and suggestions with the help of Clubcard pricing. This will also support our in a growth in active advertisers, number of campaigns per advertiser and an increase in spend per
customers through health and wellness initiatives. We continue to enhance our data analytics insight campaign. This will support our supplier strategy, build strategic partnerships and form part of our
and the use of AI to better understand our customers and deliver them more personalised offers, to enhanced brand strategy.
improve outputs from customer feedback and assist with demand forecasting and waste reduction. We have mobilised a dedicated Tesco Media and Insight Platform team. Through new partnerships with
Personalised Clubcard Challenges were offered to 10 million customers and launched a trial of Your WPP and Publicis we have been able to leverage our combined expertise and reach across a broader
Clubcard Prices, which contributed to record levels of digital engagement. pool of advertisers. We now have more than 5,000 in-store screens and more than 9,000 retail
media campaigns.
Marketplace Integration of sustainability across our longer-term strategy
In June 2024 we introduced our own marketplace proposition, offering customers an even broader range Our commitments to reduce carbon emissions, tackle food waste and promote healthier diets
of products from our specially selected partners. While we are still in the early stages of this, we are demonstrates the importance of our role as a responsible business. Our key climate priorities through
now offering more than 400,000 third-party products across a range of categories. We have ambitious our planet plan continue to be a focus for the Board and senior management, ensuring our current
growth plans aimed at expanding our product range and enhancing the overall customer experience. approach to sustainability delivers competitive advantage for the business, as well as delivering on
We aim to deliver a more integrated consumer offering through expansion of our range and building our commitments.
more strategic brand partnerships.
More information on our sustainability initiatives can be
found on pages 31 to 35.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 74 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 72.
Corporate governance report continued
NNoommiinnaattiioonnss aanndd Key responsibilities Committee membership
Board and senior management succession and meetings
GGoovveerrnnaannccee CCoommmmiitttteeee.. planning The Committee is composed of the
– Board and Board-level committee composition. Non-executive Chair and nine independent
– Board and senior management succession Non-executive Directors. The Committee held
plans. four scheduled meetings during the year with a
Chair of the Board and Committee Chair – Directors’ skills and experience matrix. focus on talent management, succession
– Recommendation of annual election and planning, diversity, equity and inclusion, Board
Gerry Murphy. re-election of Directors. composition and Board effectiveness.
– In-depth three-year and six-year review
of Non-executive Directors’ performance. Board composition, expertise and
succession planning
Talent management
– Talent management priorities and progress To ensure the composition of the Board remains
Committee membership2 and tenure Meeting made against the priorities. aligned to the Group strategy, the Committee
Director Member since attendance – Review and implementation of Board diversity, monitors the size and composition of the Board
Gerry Murphy, Committee Chair September 2023 4/4 equity and inclusion policy. and its committees. Memberships are reviewed
Melissa Bethell¹ June 2024 3/3 – Monitor the progress of the Group’s diversity, to ensure an appropriate balance of skills,
equity and inclusion strategy. knowledge, experience and diversity. The
Bertrand Bodson¹ June 2024 3/3
Committee recognises the need to attract Board
Carolyn Fairbairn1 June 2024 3/3 Group governance
members with a diverse range of backgrounds
Thierry Garnier¹ June 2024 3/3 – Review of corporate governance framework,
who can contribute a wealth of knowledge,
Stewart Gilliland April 2019 4/4 including matters reserved for the Board and understanding and experience of
Chris Kennedy3 February 2025 1/1 Committee terms of reference. the communities where Tesco operates.
– Monitoring compliance against the UK
Alison Platt4 April 2019 3/4
Corporate Governance Code. The Committee is responsible for identifying and
Caroline Silver¹ June 2024 3/3
– Board and Committee effectiveness review reviewing suitable candidates through a formal
Karen Whitworth¹ June 2024 3/3 process and progress against actions identified. and transparent process, ensuring that plans
1. In June 2024, the Committee membership was expanded to include all Non-executive Directors. – Effectiveness review of Non-executive Directors are in place for orderly succession to the Board.
2. B yron Grote was a member of the Committee until he stood down from the Board in including review of time commitments, There have been a number of changes to the
June 2024. He attended one meeting during the year.
3. Chris Kennedy joined the Committee in February 2025. independence and conflicts of interest. Board during the year.
4. Tesco PLC Board and Committee meetings are scheduled two years in advance of the meeting. – Governance-related legal and regulatory
Appointment of Senior Independent Director
Due to unavoidable circumstances, it was necessary to change a couple of meeting dates developments including impact of the
during 2024/25. This resulted in Alison Platt being unable to attend one committee meeting In anticipation of the retirement of Byron Grote
during the year. UK Corporate Governance Code 2024. at the conclusion of the AGM in June 2024,
Focus during 2024/25 The terms of reference for the following 1:1 interviews by the Chair of the Board,
Committee are reviewed on an annual the Committee recommended Carolyn Fairbairn
– Board and committee composition: succession planning, skills and
basis and are published on our website be appointed as Senior Independent Director
experience matrix.
at www.tescoplc.com to replace Byron upon his retirement.
– Senior management talent and succession planning.
– Diversity, equity and inclusion strategy and progress. Further details on compliance with the Board evolution
– Board governance: Board performance review and progress against UK Corporate Governance Code 2018 is Alison Platt will retire as a director of the Board
2023/24 actions, time commitments and independence. set out on page 53. following nine years’ service at the conclusion of
Committee activity the 2025 AGM. Following the retirement of Byron
Grote, a detailed role profile was developed, and
Board and senior management an in-depth selection process was initiated,
succession planning 35% assisted by Lygon Group, to identify a new
Talent management 33% Non-executive Director. The Committee
Group governance 32% considered a shortlist of candidates and
reviewed each against the current Board and
Committee composition, the existing diversity
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 75 ---
SSttrraatteeggiicc rreeppoorrtt Governance Financial statements Additional information 73.
Corporate governance report continued
Nominations and Governance Committee continued
of skills, knowledge and experience on the Senior management talent planning undertakes detailed reviews of each of these considers whether each Director has
Board, the diversity of gender and ethnicity, aspects at least annually. demonstrated they have sufficient time to devote
The Board recognises the need to create
together with the skills, experience and time to their present role within Tesco, including under
conditions that foster talent and encourage all The Committee oversees the Board
commitments required in the delivery of the role. potential periods of corporate stress.
colleagues to achieve their full career potential. performance effectiveness review process.
The Committee recommended to the Board
During the year, the Board has placed greater The Committee discussed the proposed The Board is currently satisfied that the number
the appointment of Chris Kennedy who joined
emphasis on talent management and diversity, approach to the 2024/25 external effectiveness of appointments held by each Director in addition
the Board as a Non-executive Director in
and ensuring the required future capabilities and review of the Board, Committees and Directors, to their position with Tesco is appropriate to
February 2025.
skills are in place. The aim is to have a diverse considering the key themes and focus of the allow them to fulfil their obligations to Tesco. All
Appointments are always based on merit and set of leaders with the right skills to deliver our review. The Committee reviewed the progress Directors make themselves freely available as
relevant experience. The Committee continues business strategy, ready when we need them. against the actions identified through the required, even at short notice, in order to meet
to challenge the external search consultants It has focused on critically evaluating internal 2023/24 effectiveness review and discussed the needs of the business.
where necessary, to ensure that diversity is talent pipelines against these ambitions. The whether any further actions were required. External appointments, which may affect existing
always considered when drawing up candidate Committee strongly believes that an inclusive Details of the 2024/25 Board performance time commitments relevant to the Board, must
shortlists. Open advertising was not used. culture is a key driver of business success and review together with progress against be agreed with the Chair in advance.
Lygon Group has no connection to Tesco or the Committee is committed to having a
actions from 2023/24, can be found
any of its Directors. leadership team which provides a range of on page 66. During the year, the Board approved the
perspectives, insights and critical challenge additional external commitments taken on
N A t to h s E e e p D n B a s s o r u u t a c r o r e c d f e t t r h h s e e e s v i i s s o e i u w z n c e s p c o C e l f a s o e n s m a n io c m i n n h i g p t C t l a e a o n n e m d n c m i o n sk i g m t i t p l p e l r s o e o m s c is it e a io s t s n r , i x n h an e e d e lp d d in e e g d l i w v t e o it r h s y u . r p is p k o m rt a g n o a o ge d m d e e n ci t s , i s o t n r - a m te a g k ic in p g, la nning A a B n o r d a e r v t d i h e e w w B e o r o f e a t r u h d n e ’ d s C e M o r a t m a tt m k e e r i n t s t d e R e u e ’ r s s i e n t r g e v r t e m h d e s f y o o e f r a r t r e h a f e e n r d e nce b c a c n o o y d m n A s l t m i i s h d o i e e t n m r i e m P e d l p n a . a t t It , t c . e w t A f o a f n e f s c a a d t s n e i s v y t e e e c s n r r s m e o m s s i s n s e , - e n i d d n t i d r o t e e h f c p a t t i t e m o t n r e h d s - e h e s i n p e c s e w as
appropriate with the relevant skills and expertise Succession planning at executive and senior are published on the Corporate website at additional external commitments would not
required, ensuring governance requirements are management level continues to be a priority www.tescoplc.com. impact her role and commitment to Tesco PLC
met when replacing certain roles, for example for the Committee and throughout the year, the The Committee reviewed the Governance as a Non-executive Director.
Chair of Audit and Remuneration Committees. Committee monitored the future leadership sections of the Annual Report and reviewed Further details on Non-executive Directors’
The Chair leads the Committee in annually pipeline and the available pool of talent in the compliance with the UK Corporate Governance external appointments are set out on
evaluating the balance of skills, experience, Group. The Committee and management both Code. The relevant sections of the Annual Report pages 56 to 58.
independence, and knowledge on the Board, align to take a more strategic and future-focused were recommended for adoption by the Board.
preparing a description of the role and view of succession, using refreshed success
NED independence
capabilities required for a particular appointment. profiles, leading to more robust career and NED time commitments The Non-executive Directors provide a strong
development conversations with successors. The Board recognises the importance of all
To support the succession planning process, This is essential to ensuring a continuous level Non-executive Directors having the necessary independent element to the Board and a solid
a skills matrix detailing skills and competencies of quality in management, avoiding instability time to commit to the business. Prior to foundation for good corporate governance,
of the Board is regularly reviewed to ensure that by helping mitigate the risks which may be appointment, the Committee assesses the fulfilling the vital role of corporate accountability.
there is broad experience on the Board, and that associated with unforeseen events, such as the commitments of a proposed candidate, The Committee formally reviews the
the skills required to deliver the strategy and departure of a key individual. The Committee’s including other directorships, to ensure they independence of each of the Non-executive
objectives in the longer term are maintained, as review included a review of talent management, have sufficient time to devote to the role. Directors at least annually. In assessing each
well as to ensure the cultural fit of every member Director’s independence, the Committee
of the Board. Having a skills matrix also identifies key role profiles and succession planning, all Upon appointment, Non-executive Directors’ concluded that each provides objective
the skills and experience that may potentially through a lens of inclusion. letters of appointment stipulate the expected challenge, strategic guidance, holds
be lost when a Non-executive Director retires Board effectiveness and performance time commitment while acknowledging that this management to account and is willing to stand
from the Board. Collectively, our Non-executive may vary depending upon the demands of the up and defend their own beliefs and that each
Directors have a wide range of industry and Effectiveness of the Board encompasses many business and other events. The Committee Non-executive Director continues to be
sector backgrounds, with a wealth of aspects of Board governance including: matters regularly assesses the time commitments of independent in character and judgement in
reserved for the Board and delegation of Directors to ensure that they each continue to
international experience in complex line with the definition set out in the 2018 UK
authority; review of the Board and Committee have sufficient time for their role. Each Director
organisations. For more details on the Corporate Governance Code.
performance; Board and Committee completes a self-assessment of the time spent on
experience of the Board, see pages 56 to 58. composition and succession planning; review their external commitments which supports the Conflicts of interest
of skills and expertise; independence; time Committee in their assessment. The assessment In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and
commitments; conflicts of interest; and Director takes into account the number and nature of the the Company’s Articles of Association, Directors
election and re-election. The Committee external commitments each Director has and are required to report actual or potential
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 76 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 74.
Corporate governance report continued
Nominations and Governance Committee continued
conflicts of interest to the Board for In addition, they undertake site visits to stores 2024/25 Committee effectiveness review
Did you know: consideration and, if appropriate, authorisation. across different store formats and locations, The 2024/25 Committee effectiveness review
If such conflicts exist, Directors excuse urban fulfilment and distribution centres, formed part of the external Board performance
themselves from consideration of the relevant providing an opportunity to meet colleagues review. The review found that the Committee
The directors’ matter. On behalf of the Board, the Committee and see at first hand the business operations. was performing effectively, with a well-balanced
reviews the register of authorised conflicts of composition. The expansion of the Committee to
induction programme Directors joining Nominations and Governance,
interests at least annually to confirm its ongoing include all Non-executive Directors has meant
Audit, Remuneration and Sustainability
constantly evolves, authorisation of any potential or actual conflicts Committees also spend additional time with that the whole Board feels properly informed,
arising from a Director’s interest. During the and able to contribute to discussions relating to
the Committee Chairs and the relevant senior
changing as period, in reviewing the cumulative conflicts key people matters. Meetings were well chaired,
management covering key issues relating to
of interests of each of the Directors, the with good quality papers. It was felt there was a
appropriate to reflect the Committee’s focus.
Committee concluded that no Director had good mix of skills and members were well
the business priorities, a conflict that would have a detrimental impact The Committee reviews the induction informed, prepared and able to challenge.
on their independence and judgement or their programme ahead of a new Director joining.
the experience and time commitment to Tesco. Feedback from Directors has been that the Committee priorities for 2025/26
programme provides great insight into the The Committee will continue to consider future
expertise of the Annual re-election of Directors
business operations, governance and controls, Non-executive Director succession planning
Annually, the Committee considers and
inductee and the role with an opportunity to meet colleagues within requirements, strategic ambitions and longer-
recommends to the Board the re-election
the business. Following appointment, Directors term strategy, as well as the need for diversity
they will perform. of Directors by shareholders at the AGM.
agree their individual training and development across the Board.
This is supported by each Director’s individual
needs with the Chair.
assessment undertaken as part of the annual
Board effectiveness review. Following a review
of each of the Independent Non-executive
Directors’ time commitment, contribution and Directors’ induction pack
effectiveness, the Committee considered and
Directors receive access
recommended to the Board that each of the
to a detailed library of
Directors be proposed for election or re- Board and
election by shareholders at the 2025 AGM, information, which in Committee papers
addition to key policies, and minutes
with the exception of Alison Platt who, as
includes information
announced in June 2024, will retire at the
relating to:
conclusion of the 2025 AGM.
Director induction Risk
Strategy and
All new Directors receive a comprehensive management,
progress against
induction programme over a six-month period internal control key objectives
which is designed to facilitate their understanding and key policies Information
of the business and is tailored to their individual received as
needs. The Chair and the Group Company part of Director
Secretary are responsible for delivering the induction
programme which covers the Company’s core
purpose and values, strategy, key areas of the
business and corporate governance.
The new director programme is delivered Recent Operational
through introductory meetings held with each developments, and financial
challenges and performance
member of the Board and Executive Committee, opportunities updates
the Group Company Secretary, the Company’s
advisors and key senior managers across the
Group including Tesco Mobile, dunnhumby,
Booker, F&F, Insurance and Money Services.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 77 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 75.
Corporate governance report continued
Nominations and Governance Committee continued
Diversity, equity and inclusion
Board diversity
We place great importance on having an
inclusive and diverse Board and workforce. Policy objectives Implementation Progress against objectives
We aim to build a culture where people see A gender balance between 40% and 60% Regular succession planning sessions are undertaken to review Board We currently have 42% female
themselves represented, feel they can be on the Board. and Committee composition throughout the year to ensure that the representation on the Board.
themselves at work, meet their career appropriate balance of skills and experiences required to deliver on the
aspirations and thrive. The Board supports and strategic objectives are in place over the short, medium and long term.
monitors Tesco’s diversity, equity and inclusion
Appointments are always based on merit and relevant experience,
strategy and management’s efforts to ensure
while taking into account the broadest definition of diversity. The
that the diversity of Tesco’s senior management
Committee continues to challenge the external search consultants
is continuously enhanced. The Committee
where necessary, to ensure that diversity is always considered when
reviews progress against the strategy at least
drawing up candidate shortlists.
twice a year, including our five commitments
to our colleagues: At least one Director from a non-white Consideration is given to this as part of the succession planning process. We currently meet the Parker
ethnic minority background on the Board Review recommendations with
1. I nclusion for all
(as defined in categories recommended both Melissa Bethell and Imran
2. F lexibility for all by the Office of National Statistics). Nawaz being from Asian
backgrounds. 17% of the Board
3. Accessible first
is ethnically diverse.
4. Transform recruitment
At least one woman in the role of Chair, Consideration is given to this as part of the succession planning process. Carolyn Fairbairn was
5. Developing careers CEO, CFO or Senior Independent appointed as the Senior
Director. Independent Director
Board diversity, equity and inclusion policy in June 2024.
The Board diversity, equity and inclusion policy
Diversity in senior roles
(the Policy) was first adopted in July 2019 and is
subject to an annual review by the Committee to Policy objectives Implementation Progress against objectives
monitor the progress against the Policy and make
To achieve 39% female representation Scheduled updates to the Board, Nominations and Governance Achieved 32% female
any updates as required. The Policy sits alongside
of our top global leaders by 2027. Committee and Executive Committee to discuss talent management, representation of our top
the Group’s values, business code of conduct and
succession planning and diversity, equity and inclusion to assist the global leaders (director and
the Company’s wider strategy, which aims to
development of a pipeline of high-potential and high-performing above), and our targets will
create an inclusive workplace where colleagues
candidates with diverse backgrounds in senior management roles. KPIs extend to senior managers
see themselves represented, feel they can be
have been established to measure progress. During the year, members from 2027 onwards.
themselves at work and develop. The Committee
of the Committee have taken on mentoring roles to some of our senior
reviews the Policy in detail each year and To achieve 18% ethnically diverse 14% ethnically diverse
leaders within the business. Representation at Board and senior
monitors progress against it. Through its representation of our top global leaders representation of our top
management level is considered as part of the talent management and
succession plans, the Board considers the wider by 2027. global leaders (director
succession planning processes.
diversity of the Tesco PLC Board, its Committees and above).
and the Executive Committee, while ensuring
the right skills and experience are in place for
Further details on the Group’s diversity, equity and inclusion strategy and the schedule in
oversight, challenge and to promote the success
accordance with Listing Rule 6.6.6(10), can be found on page 23.
of the Group.
Gerry Murphy
Committee Chair
9 April 2025
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 78 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 76.
Corporate governance report continued
Sustainability Key responsibilities As the Chair of the Committee, I am pleased to
present the Committee’s 2024/25 report into
Integrated sustainability strategy
Committee. – Support and advise the Board on matters the key activities undertaken during 2024/25
alongside its anticipated activities for 2025/26.
relating to the integrated sustainability
This report provides an overview of the
strategy, planet plan, human rights and our
Committee’s role, responsibilities and activities
communities.
throughout the year and demonstrates how in
– Review progress towards the Group’s climate
Committee Chair 2024/25, we continued to place an increased
commitments.
focus on our core purpose serving customers,
Stewart Gilliland. – Provide constructive challenge of sustainability
communities, the planet and sustainability, to
initiatives to support delivery of the Group’s
monitor sustainability performance to achieve
purpose and strategic priorities.
our goals and objectives, as we strive to meet
– Support the development of the sustainability
expectations from our stakeholders and while
agenda to balance short, medium and
we ensure we manage our risks and take
Committee membership and tenure long-term objectives.
Meeting – Monitor KPIs relating to sustainability and advantage of opportunities to serve our
Director Member since attendance customers with affordable, healthy and
climate metrics.
Stewart Gilliland, Committee Chair June 2021 4/4 sustainable food.
– Monitor external developments on sustainability.
Bertrand Bodson June 2021 4/4 We have built sustainability into our purpose,
Planet plan
Carolyn Fairbairn September 2023 4/4 strategy and business plans as we know our
– Progress updates and deep dives on initiatives
Karen Whitworth June 2021 4/4 supporting each of the planet plan pillars. business depends on the world around us.
Thierry Garnier¹ June 2024 3/3 Having a sustainable business is a strategic
Community priority for the Board and reference to our work
1. Thierry Garnier joined the Committee in June 2024. – Receive updates on our community in this area can be found throughout this Annual
Key activities in 2024/25 programmes. Report. It is central to what we do, and the
– Review of initiatives required to support the delivery of our – Approve the use of share forfeiture funds Committee helps to ensure that it is given as
Scope 1, 2 and 3 net zero commitments. for good causes. much of the Board’s time and attention as our
– Deep dive into the pillars of the planet plan with a focus during Governance and stakeholder engagement business priorities. This report explains how in
2024/25 on decarbonisation, healthy sustainable diets, sustainable – Annual review of sustainability communication 2024/25 the Committee has assisted the Board
agriculture, nature and waste. and customer plan. in fulfilling its responsibilities by reviewing the
– Oversight of the Group’s human rights and community initiatives. – Review of human rights strategy; oversight of progress of Tesco with respect to sustainability
– Sustainability-related site visits and events. human rights risk and assurance; review of the and overseeing the effective integration of
Committee activity governance; and monitoring of human rights sustainability matters into the Company’s
matters. strategy and operations, including the Group’s
Sustainability strategy 27% – Review and approve current and forthcoming sustainability initiatives to support the delivery
Planet plan pillars 27% sustainability-related corporate reporting of the Group’s purpose, strategic priorities and
Current issues 21% requirements. pillars of the planet plan, further details of which
Stakeholders and governance 25% – Regular updates on stakeholder engagement can be found on pages 31 to 35.
on sustainability matters.
At Tesco, we continue our journey with respect
– Review of the effectiveness of the Committee
to sustainability, an area of critical strategic
and annual review of Committee terms
importance in which the Company aims to
of reference.
implement change through the Committee’s
The Committee’s terms of reference various activities, which provide a clear path
are reviewed on an annual basis and on the oversight of initiatives to deliver climate
are published on our website at goals, with activities grouped into the pillars
www.tescoplc.com. of our planet plan. As the UK’s largest retailer,
we know we can make a difference and the
Committee provides strategic oversight and
advice to the Board on our objectives and
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 79 ---
SSttrraatteeggiicc rreeppoorrtt Governance Financial statements Additional information 77.
Corporate governance report continued
Sustainability Committee continued
T
targets as well as key priorities of the Group’s setting the overall remuneration policy. The
integrated sustainability strategy, and to allow for Committee also works in conjunction with the The Committee held four scheduled meetings during the year and each meeting followed an agenda
more detailed consideration of sustainability Audit Committee, as necessary, to consider to focus the discussion on key issues, allowing time for debate and deeper analysis if required. The
related risks and opportunities. This reflects the requirements for internal and/or external timeline below provides details of the key issues discussed at each meeting over the past 18 months.
importance of sustainability matters globally as assurance of sustainability-related matters,
well as the Company’s recognition of the as well any sustainability-related disclosures, October – June
increasing importance of sustainability. Tesco targets, key performance indicators and – Sustainability strategy to include food waste, nature, transition plan and planet
has developed a detailed plan which sets out future plans. leadership areas
– Planet plan: decarbonising transport and reduce store emissions, improve our products,
the pathway to achieve our Group targets for
Preparations are underway for compliance with eliminate waste (food waste and packaging)
each of the pillars of the planet plan as outlined
EUDR deforestation legislation across relevant – External trends, risks and opportunities and sustainability coverage
on page 32.
categories and products. The Committee has – Human rights: simplification and aligning ways of working, effectiveness and enhancing
recognised efforts where the Group are in the performance quality of audits and the efficient and enhanced management of audit
The Committee meets regularly to provide
dialogue with our supply chain on the best way providers, independence and intelligence sharing
strategic oversight and advice to the Board by to do this and have held five webinars with – Annual Report disclosures, ESG reporting assurance and regulations
continuing to develop the Group’s sustainability – Current issues: net zero targets, River Wye and water pollution (support the WRAP Courtauld
suppliers to outline its approach and ensure
agenda to balance its short, medium and 2030 Water Roadmap and several water catchment projects), deforestation, ultra processed
they are fully supported. It has noted that a
long-term objectives. It also considers the foods (UPFs)
developed and detailed risk assessment
Group’s net zero commitments for Scope 1 and 2 – Sustainability communication plan 2024/25: serving the planet a little better every day,
by 2035 and Scope 3 by 2050; its impact on the framework, in line with the EUDR due diligence better baskets/pharmacy/health and the UK agriculture transition to net zero
natural environment and the environment’s requirements is underway. The Committee is – Investor update
impact on the Group; community programmes also closely monitoring preparations for – Tesco community programmes: Stronger Starts, Fareshare and Trussell Trust
forthcoming Corporate Responsibility reporting – Approval of use of share forfeiture funds (for use in Stronger Starts, Trussell Trust and
and charity partnerships; and our objectives and
directives, including EU Taxonomy regulation, community programmes across Central Europe and Ireland)
targets, as well as key priorities, and allows for
Corporate Sustainability Due Diligence – ESG considerations in remuneration
more detailed consideration of sustainability
Directive and EU Corporate Sustainability – TCFD Disclosures
related risks and opportunities. The Committee
Reporting Directive.
also reviews and considers external stakeholder
perspectives on sustainability issues of relevance The Committee regularly discusses how the July – October
– Sustainability strategy: competitive advantage, (including the dashboard, EUDR update,
to the Group’s businesses, as well as overseeing evolving approach to sustainability delivers
supplier update and trials update)
the communication of the Group’s sustainability competitive advantage for the business, as
– Planet plan: decarbonising transport and reduce store emissions, protect nature
matters with external stakeholders. I would like well as delivering on the Group’s sustainability
– Current issues: River Wye, deforestation, human rights
to thank the members of the Committee and commitments. The Committee leveraged the – Human rights: enhanced first-line due diligence, community impact, information on supply
the management team for their continued results of brand review work to understand chains, agency labour and additional training programmes
commitment throughout the year, and we look what resonates with our customers and wider – Investor update
forward to continuing our work in 2025. stakeholders. We evaluated how supplier – External trends, risks and opportunities and sustainability coverage
relationships could support our journey and – Cranswick farm visit
Committee activities considered what Tesco would want to be most – ESG reporting and disclosure update
Throughout the year, the Committee focused well known for. – ESG considerations in remuneration
on the areas of greatest strategic importance,
Our planet plan provides a clear structure for
allowing it to more effectively oversee Tesco’s November – February
the Committee’s oversight of the initiatives to
progress with respect to its sustainability – Sustainability strategy: competitive advantage, deforestation free soy, EUDR compliance
deliver Tesco’s climate goals, with activities
objectives. Meeting agendas focus the discussion and adoption and current commitments
grouped into the six pillars of the plan. Details
on a couple of key issues, allowing time for – Planet plan: support sustainable consumption: healthy sustainable diets including UPFs,
debate and deeper analysis if required. of the pillars can be found on page 32. The improve our products
Committee reviews and challenges initiatives – Current issues: recycling and soft plastics, farm animal welfare and food certification
In the year, the Committee held a joint meeting supporting the Group’s net zero commitments scheme, River Wye/water catchments and deforestation
with the Remuneration Committee to determine with regular deep dives into each of the planet – Investor update
the appropriate sustainability-related plan pillars, providing an opportunity to monitor – ESG trends, risks and opportunities and sustainability coverage
performance objectives and incentives for progress against targets, consider key areas – Annual Report disclosures and ESG reporting assurance and regulations
executive leaders and to ensure that sustainability of focus and to address and mitigate any risks.
matters are appropriately considered when
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 80 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 78.
Corporate governance report continued
Sustainability Committee continued
The Committee feeds back to the wider Board on Tesco plays a part in protecting nature in at-risk
matters discussed at meetings and helps to landscapes, including forests, freshwater
ensure that delivery of the integrated catchments and marine environments. Spotlight on:
sustainability strategy is embedded into the – Waste: the Committee recognised that
Group’s overall strategy. The cross-committee progress has been made on rebuilding the food
membership, combined with defined and focused waste programme, with a focus on diverting I mpact.
responsibilities across each Board Committee, surplus bakery and produce items and food
supports collaboration and consistency across that is unsuitable for human consumption
the governance framework. At each meeting, the to animal feed and pet food. Work is also
Committee monitors external developments on underway on the evolution of our packaging Committee sees true strategic
sustainability-linked issues, especially where they targets to ensure they are stretching but partnership in action
relate to planet plan pillars. It reviews a planet pragmatic, and take into account changing
In October 2024, the Committee spent some
plan dashboard and glide path setting out the key regulations.
time with Norfolk-based supplier Cranswick.
initiatives and this enables it to monitor progress, – Water pollution: the Committee has Cranswick produce, slaughter, butcher and
KPIs and key milestones, and to challenge and continued to oversee the WRAP Courtauld
retail pack Tesco own brand fresh pork.
request deep dives into specific topics and issues. 2030 Water Roadmap, a multi-year funding
Visiting four different open-air sites,
programme for a number of water catchment
Specific deep dives Cranswick demonstrated various livestock
projects and was advised that the majority of
– Decarbonisation: the Committee reviewed farming sustainability initiatives, as well as
suppliers with operations within the River Wye
progress on operational change and transport how pork production processes supported
and Usk catchment areas had responded
innovation within our own operations which will positively to a request that they match the improvements in future land use and crop worked in partnership with Tesco to unlock
support the delivery of Scope 1 and 2 targets. Group’s ambition on achieving the WRAP rotation programmes. value, manage risks, improve security of
Further information can be found in the Courtauld 2030 commitment. The Group The Committee discussed the various supply and maximise growth opportunities to
Sustainability report 2024/25 available on our remains committed to ensuring all its suppliers environmental factors such as the benefits further support the Group’s sustainability
website at www.tescoplc.com. sign up to a relevant environmental standard. of organic manure fertilisation produced by and welfare agenda. Cranswick explained how
– Healthier and sustainable diets/UPFs: the – Deforestation: the Committee discussed grazing livestock to support the cycle of they were collaborating with other suppliers
Committee reviewed the development of supplier readiness to respond to new EU regenerative agriculture. Its high value was in order to share successes and simplify the
Tesco’s position on UPFs, a complex scientific regulations on deforestation concerning recognised by cereal farmers as it replaces the product to market process. Both Cranswick
area where we want to support customers products entering the EU market. There has need for synthetic fertilisers and reduces the and the Committee recognised the value of
make healthier choices. The Committee also been a need for further strengthening of carbon footprint involved in crop production. true strategic partnership and how
reviewed the proposed modernisation of corporate due diligence and end-to-end Cranswick highlighted the benefits derived collectively, working with suppliers like
health laws, which calls for progressive age traceability along the supply chain and EUDR from the circularity back into animal feed and Cranswick, Tesco could better support British
restriction increases aimed at eventually preparations have been phased according to improved product quality. The Committee producers, minimise further consolidation
phasing out smoking, and the introduction of the complexity, resource requirements and discussed the longer-term benefits of and maintain competitiveness and innovation.
age restrictions for the sale of energy drinks.
– a Im re p o ro n v t e r a o c u k r o p v r e o r d al u l, c t t h s e : w C h o i m le m th it e te se e i h n a it s ia tives t to im p e r l i i o n r e i s ti s in e v l o e l g v a e l d c . o T m he p G lia r n o c u e p i h n a li s n c e o w n i t t i h n u ri e s d k i t m o p to ro p v s e o d il r s e o g il e h n e e a r l a th ti o a n n d a n th d e b c io o d n i t v r e ib rs u it t y io n D sh u o r w in c g a t s h e e d v t is h i e t, i t n h n e o C va r t a i n ve sw te ic c k h t n e o a l m og y
recognised the challenging environment management protocols and is currently improvements due to the pig production solutions deployed within the operations.
concerning UK agricultural policy following the working towards compliance in this area. process. Cranswick explained how the farms These included:
The Group engaged with and worked with the manage ground irrigation and mitigate run off
decision to not progress the industry Greener European Commission on scenario planning into local rivers. The Committee explored the – the use of solar-powered sensors to
Farms Commitment standard. Tesco has and to work with the wider industry to seek value gained from working with farmers to monitor local insect and pollinator
continued to drive progress through its further guidance on the scope of EUDR. reduce carbon emissions. populations and measure the corresponding
Sustainable Farming Groups, and aimed to carbon uplift from the soil;
accelerate innovative solutions through Agri The Committee considered future projects – measuring biodiversity in the local
T-Jam which identified promising innovations and innovation initiatives. Demonstrating ecosystems; and
and matched them with suppliers who could alignment with the Group’s planet plan, – optimisation techniques in the pig-rearing
lend their scale. purpose and strategy, as well as how the process.
– Nature: the launch of the nature programme Group could support the industry in achieving
was considered by the Committee. Alongside some of these goals. Directors discussed the More information on Board activity
our suppliers and through industry collaboration, strategic alignment and how Cranswick can be found on pages 67 to 69.
TTeessccoo P PLLCC A Annnnuuaal lR Reeppoorrtt a anndd FFiinnaanncciiaall SSttaatteemmeennttss 22002255

--- PAGE 81 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 79.
Corporate governance report continued
Sustainability Committee continued
– Human rights: the Committee has considered Community – Governance including updates on TCFD and
and discussed progress made concerning our The Committee regularly reviews community TNFD reporting as well as FY 24 ESG reporting
human rights agenda covering risks, assurance initiatives and received a number of updates and disclosure (and climate risk overseen by Spotlight on:
and future plans. During the year, the during the year. We want to use our place at the the Audit Committee). Further details on TCFD
Committee considered key human rights risks, heart of communities across the UK to support and TNFD can be found on pages 34 to 39.
the progress to implement and embed our customers to live healthier lives. Our Community – Increasing the focus on competitive C ommunity.
human rights blueprint, and enhancements Food Connection scheme has grown into the advancement and the integration and
to the due diligence programme, including biggest food redistribution initiative of its kind implementation of sustainability initiatives
identifying the root causes of breaches and in the UK. To date it has provided more than in the business, including deep dives into
The launch of our Fruit & Veg for schools
issues. For further details on human rights 300 million meals to charities and local the pillars and carbon emission reductions
initiative has supported more than 140,000
see page 21. communities who depend on the food they in our own operations and value chain.
pupils over 400 schools across the UK. The
receive to be able to support people facing – Continue to oversee the delivery of key
Sustainability communication plan Stronger Starts and Fruit & Veg initiatives
hunger. We also continue to support our health milestones that support our sustainability
Tesco’s approach to the disclosure of its provide fruit and vegetables for children for
charity partners, the British Red Cross in the UK initiatives across the Group and hold
sustainability impacts is to bring about a full academic school year. Working closely
and internationally and support our community the business to account on delivering on
continuous improvement in the quality of with the British Nutrition Foundation,
champions at a hyperlocal level to fulfil requests its commitments.
information disclosed. Tesco’s sustainability Stronger Starts aims to give children the
for support. – Ensure the Group’s conduct as a
reporting aims to demonstrate the way it healthy start they deserve by pledging a
responsible business.
creates value for shareholders and society Governance and stakeholder engagement further £4m under the programme by giving
in a sustainable way and provides detailed We recognise the importance of collaboration The sustainability agenda and supporting disadvantaged pupils regular access to
information on the policies, practices, with suppliers, governments and customers regulation continue to grow at speed and it is vital five-a-day, further details of which can be
performance and governance of a range of as we look toward a more sustainable future. that we continue to be clear on how we can make found on pages 11, 12 and 15.
economic, social and environmental matters. Further details on our community initiatives an impact as a Company and continue to deliver
During our 2024 Winter Food Collection, our
The Group’s first stand alone sustainability and stakeholder engagement can be found on strong performance for all our stakeholders. The
customers also donated 1.9 million meals to
report for 2024/25 and other information can pages 20 to 22. Committee will continue to focus on overseeing
support our food charity partners, FareShare
be found on our website at www.tescoplc.com. the delivery of key milestones that support our
2024/25 Committee effectiveness and Trussell Trust. In addition to the donations
During the year, the Committee reviewed the sustainability initiatives across the Group, ensure
Group’s sustainability communication plan review the Group’s conduct as a responsible business, of food, the collection saw more than
£440,000 donated to the charities by
(the Plan), which focuses on delivering on our The 2024/25 Committee effectiveness review and hold the business to account on delivering on
customers rounding up their shop at the
purpose and raising awareness of the planet formed part of the external Board performance its commitments in all aspects of Tesco’s
self-service till and donating through a link
plan with our internal and external stakeholders, review. The review found that the Committee operations. We recognise the importance of
from Tesco’s online groceries website. We
showcasing initiatives and demonstrating the was performing effectively, with positive collaboration with suppliers, government, and
also provided an additional £500,000 of
actions we are taking to deliver on our contribution by members and meetings well customers as we look toward a more sustainable
funding to both FareShare and Trussell Trust
commitments. chaired. The quality of the support and input future. The Committee will continue to oversee
to address heightened levels of food poverty
During the year, the Committee reviewed the from the executive team was highlighted as the evolution of sustainability-linked reporting during the summer holiday period and in the
Plan which is built around three initiatives particularly important in the absence of disclosures in compliance with EU regulations. run-up to Christmas. The Company used
(serving the planet a little better everyday, better dedicated external advisors. share forfeiture funds from 2023/24 to
baskets/pharmacy/health and supporting UK Looking ahead: Committee priorities support community programmes with a focus
agriculture transition to net zero), and designed on food and nutrition, such as Stronger Starts.
2025/26
to be delivered by the Group Communications
team, the Group Customer team, the Group Over the next year, the Committee will continue
Stewart Gilliland
Quality, Technical and Sustainability team and to monitor the delivery of the integrated
Committee Chair
the Group Finance team. The Plan focuses on sustainability strategy and some of its planned
9 April 2025
delivering on our purpose and raising awareness activities will include:
of the planet plan with our internal and external – Continued focus on the planet pillars by
stakeholders, showcasing initiatives and rotation of our planet plan.
demonstrating the actions we are taking to – Monitoring of material issues which are also
deliver on our commitments. overseen by our Nominations and Governance
Committee (such as diversity, equity and
inclusion and human rights).

--- PAGE 82 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 80.
Corporate governance report continued
Audit Key responsibilities Risk management and internal controls
– Identify, prioritise, respond to and monitor the
The Audit Committee continues to focus on
Committee. issues relevant to the Group’s financial reporting, Group’s principal risks and material internal
controls and the effectiveness of the Group’s
considering key accounting judgements and
internal control and risk management
ensuring the ongoing quality of related
framework, including key financial, operational
disclosures, and supporting the Board in the
and compliance risk and controls.
oversight of the effectiveness of risk management
Audit Committee Chair – Review the approach to identify and assess
and internal controls processes and systems.
emerging and principal risks, including the
Karen Whitworth. Key responsibilities are set out below.
management and mitigation of those risks.
Financial statements and reporting – Review the effectiveness of the risk appetite
– Monitor the Group’s financial reporting framework and mitigating controls.
processes, reviewing and submitting
recommendations to the Board. Group Audit
Committee membership1 and tenure
Meeting – Where necessary, challenge the integrity of
– R
au
e
d
vi
i
e
t
w
pr
t
o
h
c
e
e
e
s
f
s
f
e
e
s
c
.
tiveness of the internal
Director Member since attendance financial statements and disclosures, including
– Review the annual audit plan.
Karen Whitworth2, Committee Chair June 2021 5/5 any impacts from the external environment on
– Review reports from the internal audit function
Melissa Bethell September 2018 5/5 key accounting judgements.
and consider management’s response to any
– Review the Group’s assessments of going
Carolyn Fairbairn3 June 2024 4/4 major external or internal audit actions.
concern, longer term prospects and viability
Chris Kennedy4 February 2025 0/0 – Approve the appointment of the Chief Audit
and the distributable reserves position prior
Caroline Silver October 2022 5/5 and Risk Officer.
to any declaration of dividends.
1. Byron Grote was a member of the Committee until he stood down from the Board in June 2024. – Review externally reported sustainability- The terms of reference for the
He attended one meeting during the year. related disclosures and sustainability KPIs, Committee are reviewed on an annual
2. Karen Whitworth became Chair of the Committee in June 2024.
3. Carolyn Fairbairn became a member of the Committee in June 2024. including any definitions, data sources and basis and are published on our website
4. Chris Kennedy became a member of the Committee in February 2025. levels of assurance for each. at www.tescoplc.com.
Focus during 2024/25 External auditor
Committee membership
– Completion of the disposal of the Banking operations and separation – Consider and make recommendations
of the Insurance and Money Services business to the Board on the appointment of the and meetings
– Other relevant key accounting judgements and estimates external auditor. The Committee is composed of five independent
– Internal controls and assurance – Approve the external auditor’s remuneration. Non-executive Directors and since the 2024
– Risk management and risk appetite – Review the external auditor’s terms of AGM, has been chaired by Karen Whitworth.
– Readiness for the requirements of the 2024 UK Corporate engagement, audit representation letter and The Board is satisfied that all members of the
Governance Code management’s response to recommendations. Committee have significant, relevant and recent
The Committee considered the Annual Report and Financial Statements
– Assess the quality of the external auditor’s financial experience. Each of Karen Whitworth,
2025 and concluded that the disclosures, as well as the processes and
contribution and effectiveness. Caroline Silver and Chris Kennedy are chartered
controls underlying its production, were appropriate.
– Monitor the provision of non-audit services accountants and are considered suitably
For more details on our fair, balanced and understandable and associated fees in line with policy on qualified. In addition, Chris Kennedy is currently
consideration see page 53. non-audit services. a serving chief financial officer at another FTSE
listed company. The Board considers that the
Committee members collectively have
competence relevant to the Company’s sector,
in addition to their general management and
commercial experience. The Committee
members’ expertise and experience is set out
in each of their biographies on pages 56 to 58.
The Committee held five scheduled meetings
during the year. Each meeting followed an
agenda to reflect the financial reporting cycle
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 83 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 81.
Corporate governance report continued
Audit Committee continued
T
and particular matters for the Committee’s Financial statements and
consideration. Regular attendees to meetings regulatory reporting Environmental disclosures
include the Non-executive Chair, Group Chief and assurance
During the year, the Committee considered
Executive, Chief Financial Officer, Group General
and recommended the approval of the interim Work continued to support the
Counsel, Chief Audit and Risk Officer, senior
financial results, preliminary results and this development of the Group’s risk
management from Group Finance and
Annual Report, taking into consideration key management framework and an external
representatives of the external auditor.
accounting judgements, adjusting items and reporting assurance policy to govern
Members of the Committee meet regularly with quality of earnings, as well as monitoring the assurance over key published non-financial
management to understand more about the external audit. During the year, the Committee information. The Committee was updated
business operations, which provides greater specifically reviewed the accounting for the on our climate and nature disclosure plans,
oversight and enables them to scrutinise disposal of the Group’s Banking operations and including key areas of strategic progress and
processes and controls in a more effective the associated separation activities. The KPI performance. The external auditor has
way. Members hold private sessions with both Committee also reviewed climate risk-related provided limited assurance over six material
the external auditor and Internal Audit team disclosures, capital allocation strategy, the KPIs including sustainability metrics in
following each meeting which provides an Company’s distributable reserves position in the Performance Share Plan targets and
additional opportunity for open dialogue and advance of the declaration of dividends and sustainability-linked financing. KPIs which
feedback without management being present. corporate governance disclosures. The are not assured by the external auditor
The Committee Chair also meets with the Chief Committee received updates on the store are internally validated and the Committee
Audit and Risk Officer and external auditor on impairment review and property fair values. reviewed the assurance status prior to
an ad hoc basis and prior to each Committee The impairment methodology and details external disclosure.
meeting to discuss matters relating to its remit of the impairment of non-current assets
The Committee received updates on the
and any issues arising from the audits. The can be found in Note 15.
Group’s preparations for corporate
Committee Chair provides a written report to
the Board following each meeting for discussion. Going concern and viability sustainability reporting, including a review
of the gap analysis undertaken to compare
The Committee considered the viability and
The Committee has a forward-looking planner future disclosure requirements with that of
going concern statements, their underlying
which is regularly reviewed by management and our current disclosures and an assessment
assumptions and longer-term prospects of the
with input from the external auditor, to ensure of the double materiality process and the
Group. The Committee considered the base
the responsibilities of the Committee are disclosure metrics. For further information
case liquidity headroom and the net impact
discharged in full and that regulatory on the Group’s environmental commitments
of the following agreed stress-test scenarios
developments and other business-critical and details of the sustainability-linked
applied and the mitigating actions available:
matters are brought to the Committee’s targets, visit www.tescoplc.com.
ongoing geopolitical and global supply issues
attention. During the year, the forward planner
triggering further inflation, leading to weak
was refreshed to schedule additional risk deep
consumer confidence and intensified
dives on particular topics which align to our
competition, data breach and climate change.
principal risks such as Cyber Security and Health
and Safety. An invitation is extended to other
More information on the viability statement April July September November February
members of the Board to attend these
scenarios can be found on pages 50 and 51. Frequency of reporting 2024 2024 2024 2024 2025
scheduled risk deep dives. These deep dives will
support the Board’s Assurance Statement to be The Committee evaluated going concern over Financial statements and reporting
made under provision 29 of the UK Corporate an 18 month period, which included a review of Key accounting judgements
Governance Code 2024 when that comes into available cash in the base case and in the severe
effect in 2027. but plausible case applying three stress-test Going concern and viability
scenarios and considering the mitigating actions Full and half-year reporting
which could be drawn upon. The Committee and disclosures
considered it appropriate to prepare the Group’s
Sustainability reporting and assurance
Financial Statements on a going concern basis.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 84 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 82.
Corporate governance report continued
Audit Committee continued
Significant financial statement reporting matters
The Committee considered the following significant issues during the year. As part of these considerations, the Committee received updates from management and sought assurance from the internal auditors
and external auditors. The Committee was satisfied with how each of the significant issues discussed were addressed.
Matter considered How the matter was addressed by the Committee Sources of further information
Going concern basis for the The Committee reviewed and challenged management’s assessment of forecast cash flows including sensitivity to trading and
For further information see
financial statements and expenditure plans, intensifying competitor activity, and for the potential impact of certain scenarios, including resurgent
pages 50 and 51.
viability statement inflation, higher input costs alongside weakening consumer confidence, a data breach and climate change impacts.
The Committee also considered the Group’s financing facilities and future funding plans. Based on this, the Committee
confirmed that the application of the going concern basis for the preparation of the Group financial statements continued
to be appropriate, with no material uncertainties noted, and also recommended the approval of the viability statement.
Disposal of Tesco Banking The sale of the Group’s Banking operations completed on 1 November 2024. The Committee reviewed the final disposal For further information see
operations accounting, including the remeasurement loss of £64m recognised within discontinued operations during the year. Following Note 8 to the financial
the disposal, the Committee reviewed the change to the Group’s segmental reporting, the remaining Insurance and Money statements.
Services business is included in the UK & ROI segment following changes in management structure and how performance is
monitored and resources allocated by the Chief Operating Decision Maker.
The Committee also reviewed the approach to revenue recognition under the Barclays partnership agreement.
As set out below, the Committee also considered the consequential impact on the Group’s Alternative Performance Measures,
and found each to be appropriate.
Impairment The Committee reviewed and challenged management’s impairment testing of the Group’s portfolio of store cash-generating For further information see
units and goodwill, giving rise to a net charge for the year. The Committee considered the key assumptions and methodologies Note 15 to the financial
used in both the value in use and fair value less costs of disposal models, in order to conclude on the appropriateness of the statements.
impairment charges.
The Committee challenged key inputs into the impairment calculations including the projected cash flows, the discount rates
and the use of independent third-party valuations. The Committee reviewed management’s weighting assessment of risk and
uncertainties within the cash flows arising from macroeconomic events, higher input costs and inflationary pressures and
climate change. The Committee confirmed its agreement with management’s judgements.
The Committee also reviewed the impairment disclosures including the sensitivity to key assumptions and considered them
to be appropriate.
Pensions Accounting for defined benefit pension schemes remains an area of significant focus for the Group given the sensitivity of For further information see
the liabilities to changes in assumptions. The Committee reviewed and challenged the key actuarial assumptions used by Notes 1 and 29 to the
management in estimating the defined benefit pension obligations, including the discount rate, inflation rate and mortality financial statements.
assumptions, which drove a reduction in the overall net defined benefit obligation (net of deferred tax) of £293m and
concluded they were reasonable. They also reviewed the sensitivity disclosures provided on the key assumptions.
The Committee was also provided with updates on the transition of investment management for the Tesco PLC Pension
Scheme to Schroders, which completed in July 2024, noting that the transition had been successful, and there was no
material impact on the valuation of the scheme assets arising.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 85 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 83.
Corporate governance report continued
Audit Committee continued
Matter considered How the matter was addressed by the Committee Sources of further information
Recognition and disclosure of The Committee continued to monitor commercial income controls across the Group and discussed the outcome of internal For further information
commercial income audits on commercial income. The Committee reviewed a detailed summary of the different types of promotional activity that see Notes 1 and 21 to the
the Group enters into as well as key drivers for movements in the income statement and balance sheet. The Committee financial statements.
concluded that they were comfortable with the accounting and presentation of commercial income.
Adjusting items The Committee considered the presentation of the Group’s financial statements and the appropriateness of the presentation For further information
of adjusting items, and the nature of the adjusting items identified. The total charge from adjusting items this year was primarily see Note 1 to the financial
driven by impairment charges and the final remeasurement loss on the sale of the Banking operations. statements for a definition
of adjusting items and
The Committee concurred with management that the treatment was clear, balanced and consistently applied.
Note 5 for an analysis of
adjusting items.
Reassessment of alternative The Committee reviewed the Group’s APMs presentation and disclosure, including their level of prominence, and considered For further information on
performance measures (APMs) any changes in APMs and the clarity of APM reconciliation. Following the disposal of the Banking operations, the Audit the Group’s APMs, see
Committee assessed the changes in APMs to consider the treatment of the retained Insurance and Money Services business, pages 230 to 236.
and where appropriate the restatement of the prior year comparatives. The Committee was comfortable that the new
definitions were appropriate and the changes appropriately disclosed.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 86 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 84.
Corporate governance report continued
Audit Committee continued
Internal controls ICFR as a business-as-usual activity ahead of the
requirements of the new Corporate Governance
Through its ICFR programme, management is
Spotlight on: responsible for maintaining an effective internal Code in FY 27, including the process by which
the Board will be required to make its declaration
financial controls framework, that identifies
under Provision 29 of the Code. As part of this,
risks, maps these to controls and gives
Controls. the Committee reviewed the progress made at
assurance over the effective operation of its
TBS to further improve its level of control
control activities. Management undertakes this
effectiveness.
through a three lines of defence model, including
financial controls testing by a team independent The Committee also received regular updates
Strengthening and centralising the internal financial control
of the relevant control operators and use of the about the progress made by management to
environment
Group’s internal audit function as a third line of remediate and improve IT general controls and IT
During the year, the Committee has reviewed on an ongoing basis the processes undertaken defence. Such testing includes validation of IT automated controls and challenged the external
by management to continue to enhance its control environment, including its roadmap general automated controls as well as manual auditor to continue seeking to increase the level
to increase the level of automation and its expanded centralisation of control activities, business process control activities, and entity of reliance on such controls during the audit.
including at Tesco Business Services (TBS) and Central Europe. level controls. As a result, the external auditor has been able
The Group’s internal controls over financial reporting (ICFR) programme is now well Management is also responsible for identifying to increase its level of reliance on IT general
advanced, and during the year, work continued to embed the processes as business as and managing risks, and for maintaining the controls over our main financial reporting
usual, in good time for the changes that will be required under the new Corporate Group’s system of internal controls, which is system as well as certain other key business
Governance Code in FY 27. designed to manage and mitigate relevant risks. process areas.
During the year, on behalf of the Board, the
During the year, the Committee reviewed the Group’s progress to remediate IT general
Committee conducted a review of the
controls and noted significant progress. Members of the Committee, including the Chair,
effectiveness of management’s internal controls
spent time with the TBS team in India, reviewing the progress the team has made in
processes. The Committee did this principally
continuing to strengthen and deliver a more efficient control environment.
through updates provided to it by management,
During FY 24/25, management undertook the following approach to ICFR, and reported Group Controls and Compliance, Group Audit,
progress to each meeting of the Audit Committee: and the external auditor.
During the year, the Committee reviewed the
March–May
– Annual risk assessment and scoping process for the ICFR programme effectiveness of the ICFR framework, including
– Determination of business units in scope considering the output of the work undertaken
– Development of delivery of plan by the Group Control and Compliance team, the
Group internal audit team and the external
June–August auditor. In addition, the Committee has reviewed
– Detailed walkthrough of processes the work performed by management to embed
– Testing of design and operating effectiveness of high frequency controls
– Validation of remediated controls from FY 24/25
September–November
– Ongoing testing of design and operating effectiveness, focused on monthly and
quarterly controls, first cycle of IT general control testing
– Validation of any remediation activity Work continued during the year to embed the ICFR programme as
December–February a business-as-usual activity, in good time for the changes that will
– Continuation of operating effectiveness testing, including second cycle of IT general
control testing be required under the new Corporate Governance Code in FY 27.
– Review of entity level controls and year end control processes
– Completion of update training
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 87 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 85.
Capital allocation and in India. This included the Chair of the Committee
April July September November February
liquidity funding spending two days with the TBS team to review Frequency of reporting 2024 2024 2024 2024 2025
the work of the TBS team, including with respect
As appropriate during the year, the Committee Financial strategy and planning
to internal controls over financial reporting. In
discussed with management its plans for
March 2025, the Shared Services & Outsourcing Capital allocation, funding proposals,
refinancing as well as optimising its net
Network awarded TBS the World’s Best Global liquidity management and dividend
debt position.
Business Services Award. The award recognised
Business updates
In addition, the Committee reviewed the Group’s the strength of TBS’s service delivery model and
capital allocation framework and its plans for strategic alignment, the function’s evolution in Business transformation (including the
shareholder returns, including ordinary maturity and scope, the continued adoption transition of the Banking operations
dividends, the share buyback programme, and impact of automation and the expertise and separation of Insurance and Money
and the incremental buybacks funded with and capabilities of our TBS talent. The TBS Services)
the disposal proceeds from its sale of its team continue to contribute core value to the
Banking operations. business in terms of cash, impact on working
capital, margin and market growth. Additionally,
Business updates
the TBS team was recognised by the British
The Committee considered the Group’s FY 25/26 Quality Foundation for its continuous
energy hedging strategy. The Committee will improvement culture reflecting ongoing efforts
continue to consider the impact of changes in to optimise processes, embrace technological
the macroeconomic environment on the advancement and promote a collaborative work
underlying wholesale energy cost assumptions. environment.
Annually, the Committee reviews the Group The Committee received regular updates in
Treasury Policy, which contains a framework relation to the disposal of the Group’s Banking
and approach to managing treasury risks. operations and the separation of the Insurance
and Money Services business. The Committee
Throughout the year, the Committee received
also reviewed the accounting treatment of
presentations from different areas of the
partnership funding during the year which
business providing an update on the financial
included a review of the arrangements through
performance, key achievements, key audit
the Barclays partnership agreement.
updates, risk overview, key priorities,
developments and how the Finance function In addition, the Committee receives periodic
has supported its business units. These include updates on other key areas of the business,
updates from TBS, UK & ROI, Central Europe, including the Group’s pension schemes, its
Group Pensions, Tesco Bank and more recently, property portfolio and finance systems and
Insurance and Money Services. During the year, change projects.
the Committee Chair has attended Tesco Bank
and latterly Insurance and Money Services Audit
Committee meetings to ensure that knowledge
is shared.
Given the importance of the Group’s TBS team in
India to the overall effectiveness of the Group’s
control environment, several members of the
Committee travelled to, and met with the team
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 88 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 86.
CCoorrppoorraattee ggoovveerrnnaannccee rreeppoorrtt ccoonnttiinnuueedd
AAuuddiitt CCoommmmiitttteeee ccoonnttiinnuueedd
Risk management During the year management has embedded
April July September November February
The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, the framework and optimised mitigation plans to Frequency of reporting 2024 2024 2024 2024 2025
enhance and strengthen the Group’s risk culture,
undertakes an annual effectiveness assessment Risk management and internal controls
to support risk-informed decision making across
to manage the most significant risks or principal
risks facing the Group and actions taken to all business units. The enhancements to the Risk Review of principal and emerging risks
Appetite framework support the internal control
mitigate them, validating the key risk movements Risk management business updates
requirements under the UK Corporate
and approving any required outcomes arising
from the risk assessments. Maintaining a strong Governance Code. Internal controls: ICFR, IT general
risk and internal control environment is Additional risk deep dives are scheduled controls
fundamental to Tesco’s governance framework. throughout the year to align with our principal Risk deep dive
risks. The Board are invited to attend these
The Committee received regular updates on
sessions. This provides the Board with greater
the strengthening of the risk management
insight to the risks and challenges faced, the Further details on our Principal risks and uncertainties and the Group’s
framework, Group risk register and principal
mitigations in place and the actions to be risk management framework are set out on pages 40 to 49 and 64.
and emerging risks, reviewing detailed appetite
undertaken to reduce the risk.
statements, risk appetite levels and mitigations
for critical risk events for each principal risk. The During the year, deep dives relating to two of our
Committee reviewed the prioritisation of risks principal risks – ‘Cyber Security’ and ‘Health and
and risk movements and the changes proposed. Safety’ were undertaken to explore risk appetite,
Following discussion, there were changes to the key focus areas, risk governance controls and
principal risks, namely a reduction in the number assurance activities in place.
of risks from the previous year. This reduction
The Audit Committee is supported by the cyber
was attributed to the retirement of the Tesco
and privacy risk committee, which continues
Bank principal risk, following the completion
to oversee prioritisation and progress towards
of the sale of Banking operations to Barclays,
reducing risk exposure in this area.
and the consolidation of the Customer and
Competition and Markets principal risks. The A robust assessment of the Group’s principal
‘Geopolitics and other global events’ risk impact risks and detailed scenario analysis work to
score has slightly increased given the heightened stress test liquidity was performed as part of
level of geopolitical uncertainty due to wars and the viability scenario modelling. Additionally, an
civil unrest, terrorism, elections and government assessment of emerging risks was undertaken.
restrictions. In addition, the previously named
‘Financial Performance’ risk has been renamed
‘Macroeconomic Exposures’ to better reflect
its focus.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 89 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 87.
Corporate governance report continued
Audit Committee continued
Internal audit plan activities with a focus on Group frameworks
and policies, monitoring controls, third-party
Internal audit is part of the Group Risk and Audit
function. It reports directly to the Committee management, accountability structures and Spotlight on:
significant change programmes. The Committee
and administratively to the Chief Financial
receives regular updates on the outcome of
Officer, with a remit to provide independent and
the work performed and the follow up actions D ata.
objective assurance over the Group’s prioritised
required. The audit process has been
risks and management structures. Its purpose,
strengthened through the use of data analytics
authority and responsibilities are defined in the
and this will remain a focus through FY 25/26.
Group Audit charter, which is reviewed and
Increased use of data metrics
approved annually by the Committee. The Committee has reviewed the 25/26 audit
plan which aligns to the Group’s principal risks, The Group’s internal audit team is In addition, the Group’s external auditor
During the year, the Chief Audit and Risk Officer has a focus on resilience, risk management to continuously improving the effectiveness also uses various analytics and AI tools,
left the business and a new Chief Audit and Risk support the identification of potential issues, and efficiency of its assurance processes by a number of which have been presented
Officer joined in April 2025. In the interim period, and the readiness for new regulatory reporting. leveraging data and advanced technologies. to the Audit Committee. They have outlined
the Committee appointed a senior partner from This involves a collaborative approach a five-year plan for the Tesco audit, focusing
PwC to oversee the internal audit function and Internal audit undertakes several assurance across the three lines of defence. By on enhancing efficiency, quality and insights
safeguard its independence effectively. This activities including continuous programme integrating data analytics, continuous through data analytics and AI. The plan is
ensured that the internal audit plan was controls reviews, pre-and/or post- monitoring and artificial intelligence (AI) into based on three pillars: analytics and AI
delivered in line with the initial plan submitted implementation audits, advisory reviews, and the audit process, internal audit can technology; targeted controls reliance; and
to and approved by the Committee, and the other management requested assurance. The provide greater insights and assurance centralisation. It also emphasises the
Chair of the Committee met with the PwC results of these reviews are also presented to the business. continuous assessment and deployment
partner regularly. and reviewed by the Committee. of new tools to keep the audit approach
The Group’s internal audit team has
The Committee monitors the activity, role and Audit and assurance policies expanded its use of data analytics, to allow dynamic and aligned with Tesco’s evolving
effectiveness of the Group Risk and Audit The Committee periodically receives internal it to analyse large volumes of data quickly finance transformation strategy.
function. At each meeting, the Committee policies for review and adoption including the and accurately, identifying trends, During 2025, members have a workshop
received updates covering a range of employment of former auditor employees, anomalies, and potential risks that might with the external auditor to showcase
management issues. Internal audit’s activity is external reporting assurance (non-financial not be visible through traditional audit Deloitte’s technology and AI data-led
primarily driven by the annual internal audit information), and non-audit services policies. methods. Continuous monitoring involves metrics.
plan which is discussed and approved by the The external reporting assurance (non-financial the ongoing review of business processes
Committee. The plan is aligned to the Group’s information) policy sets out Tesco’s approach to and transactions in real-time or near-real-
principal risks and focuses on the biggest risk assuring the quality of non-financial information time. This helps in the early detection of
areas and strategic drivers. The internal audit externally reported to stakeholders ensuring issues, enabling timely corrective actions
plan is reviewed throughout the year to ensure it accuracy, reliability and integrity of externally and reducing the risk of significant
remains appropriate and if required is updated reported non-financial information. Through problems going unnoticed.
as necessary to reflect any changes in risk
a risk-based approach, this policy enables
profile, business objectives and the external
information owners to determine appropriate
environment. Any changes proposed to the plan
levels of assurance for different categories of
are approved by the Committee. This year, audits
information, supporting the work undertaken
have covered a wide spectrum of business
as part of the internal controls framework. AI technologies, such as machine learning and
natural language processing, can automate routine
April July September November February
audit tasks, enhance risk assessment and provide
Frequency of reporting 2024 2024 2024 2024 2025
Internal audit predictive insights.
Audit outcomes
Internal audit plan
Internal audit effectiveness review
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 90 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 88.
Corporate governance report continued
Audit Committee continued
External audit fees: non-audit and audit-related services External audit Later in April 2025, Richard Muschamp will
replace John Adam as the new lead audit
Following the tender process undertaken in
Level of Level of partner following the completion of John’s
fees in fees in 2023, Deloitte was reappointed as external
2024/25 2023/24 Safeguards to preserve independence auditor, which was approved by shareholders five-year tenure in that role. Richard has
Nature of service (£m) (£m) Change and objectivity been shadowing John Adam and observed all
at the 2024 Annual General Meeting. Following
Audit Committee meetings during the year.
Interim review: performed 0.6 0.6 Considered a non-audit service a review of the external auditor’s effectiveness
under International under the FRC Revised Ethical the Committee recommended to the Board the The Committee will consider future audit
Standards of Review Standard 2019 although the reappointment of Deloitte as External Auditor, needs as part of the External Reporting
Engagements (UK and objectives of the review are aligned for the 2025/26 financial year. The Assurance Policy.
Ireland) 2410 with those of the audit.
reappointment is subject to approval at the
Non-audit services
Other non-audit services: 0.5 0.3 Scope of work sets out Deloitte’s and forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Committee oversees the process for
various audit, assurance management’s responsibilities ensuring At each Committee meeting, members consider
approving all non-audit work provided by the
a se n r d v c ic o e m s pliance-related m ro a le n s a . g A e p m p e lic n a t t t i a o k n e o s f a e ll n m ga a g n e a m ge e m nt e nt reports from the external auditor which provides external auditor to safeguard the objectivity and
quality control review process. their views on the half and full year financial independence of the auditor and comply with
statements including management’s key regulatory and ethical guidance. Where Deloitte
ESG Limited Assurance 0.6 0.3 Scope of work sets out Deloitte’s accounting judgements, updates on its audit plan has been chosen, it has demonstrated the
services including and management’s responsibilities and fees, any actions undertaken to address the relevant skills and experience making them an
services performed under ensuring management take all FRC’s annual report on the external auditor and appropriate supplier to undertake the work in
International Standards of management roles. A pplication the inspection results of the external auditor’s a cost-effective and time-efficient manner,
Assurance Engagements of engagement quality control quality control processes, as well as the auditor’s with appropriate safeguards in place.
3000 (Revised) and 3410 review process.
independence and an overview of non-audit
Our policy for non-audit services is compliant
Total 1.7(a) 1.2(b) services. Through these updates, the Committee
with the FRC’s Revised Ethical Standard 2019. In
receives an early warning of any concerns,
(a) £269,650 of the 2024/25 fees are not subject to the cap (all within other non-audit services). The remaining fees are all subject line with regulation, the Group is required to cap
management letter observations, updates on
to the cap. the level of non-audit fees paid to its external
(b) £212,000 of the 2023/24 fees are not subject to the cap (all within other non-audit services). The remaining fees are all subject ongoing progress and scope of the external auditor at 70% of the average audit fees paid in
to the cap. auditor’s work and provides additional comfort
the previous three consecutive financial years.
to the Committee on the quality and
Increase No change Decrease effectiveness of the external auditor. Fees paid to the external auditor are set out in
Note 4 to the financial statements.
The Committee regularly reviews the
Total auditor fees independence and role of the external auditor Ethics and compliance
Audit fees Non-audit fees Average non-audit fees and the scope of its audit. The Committee also The Committee supports the Board in discharging
considers the effectiveness of the external
£16.6m its responsibilities in relation to serious reportable
£15.9m auditor including its independence, objectivity, incidents, privacy, fraud, anti-bribery, people
£14.7m Total fee appropriate mindset and professional safety, whistleblowing, annual and Group
Total fee scepticism. The Committee’s conclusions are
Total fee £14.9m compliance statements and received and
£14.7m based on its own observations and interactions
reviewed biannual ethics and compliance data
£13.3m with the external auditor and having regard to
covering the aforementioned items.
the Minimum Standard for Audit Committees.
April July September November February
Frequency of reporting 2024 2024 2024 2024 2025
External auditor
External auditor report
Engagement letter and fees
£1.4m 12% £1.2m 9% £1.7m 12% External audit plan
2022/23 2023/24 2024/25
External audit effectiveness review
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 91 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 89.
Corporate governance report continued
Audit Committee continued
The Committee discussed the controls and External Audit effectiveness review Key outputs from Internal Audit effectiveness review
mitigating actions deployed in support of the The external auditor’s independence, Action identified Progress against action
Group’s overall compliance strategy and culture effectiveness and quality was evaluated and
to reduce instances of fraud and compliance the external auditor was rated as effective.
breaches. We received updates on the The assessment highlighted high levels of Continue integrating data analytics and Early adoption of Artificial Intelligence and
effectiveness of the Group’s internal and independence, objectivity, and value provided continuous monitoring into audit processes analytics has helped streamline audit and risk
activities. First and second line have adopted
independent external whistleblowing through audit insights which would feed into to facilitate valuable, timely insights and
continuous monitoring tools initially developed
arrangements and reviewed compliance with the audit priorities over the coming year. provide greater assurance to the business.
during audits.
GSCOP. The Committee Chair met with the The Committee discussed areas for
Groceries Code Adjudicator during the year. improvement to best meet the future needs
The Committee monitors the relationship with of the Group, which included the use of
Adapting skill requirements with focus on
the Groceries Code Adjudicator and receives innovative tools, technology and data analytics Continue to assess the audit composition, developing internal capability as well as
reports on supplier engagement and the internal to drive efficiency through the audit process. expertise and skills required to deliver in line leveraging external specialist skills in fast paced
with business needs and evolution.
auditing of ethical business processes. Internal Audit effectiveness review areas where they are most needed.
The Group has complied with the provisions Throughout the year, the Audit Committee
of the Statutory Audit Services Order 2014. monitored performance and the progress
of innovation through technology, ensuring Continue providing end-to-end
Assurance mapping across all Principal Risks
Audit effectiveness review a greater focus on controls. Regular meetings assurance coverage across the three to achieve appropriate and efficient coverage
In accordance with the Audit Committee Terms were held without management present to lines of defence to enhance risk management, across all three lines of defence.
collaboration, efficiency, and timely insights.
of Reference and the Internal Audit Code of foster open communication. Through a tailored
Practice, Tesco is required to assess annually the survey, comprehensive feedback was provided.
effectiveness of the Internal Audit and External This feedback was thoroughly reviewed to inform
Agile audit plan that proactively addresses
Audit functions. our ongoing improvements and audit strategy.
Continue horizon scanning to identify and emerging risks and aligns with Tesco’s growth
In January 2025, the Internal Audit and External The review assessed the effectiveness of provide assurance over emerging and strategy. The approach focuses on the
Audit effectiveness reviews were undertaken. This Internal Audit across key areas such as developing risks. most significant risks, enhancing overall risk
review was facilitated by an independent third composition and expertise, audit plan, quality management, internal controls, and resilience.
party, Lintstock Limited, through questionnaires of work and relationships. The Committee
completed by the Board and senior management discussed areas for improvement concluding
2024/25 Effectiveness review of the Audit Committee
and business representatives. The effectiveness that continued enhancement to the
results were presented to the Audit Committee, effectiveness of assurance would be achieved The 2024/25 Committee effectiveness review formed part of the external Board performance review.
which concluded that, through this assessment by leveraging data analytics and advanced The review found that the Committee was performing effectively, with a well-developed and effective
and ongoing review and oversight of assurance technologies across the three lines of defence. audit process. Meetings were well chaired, with appropriate challenge and good quality papers. It was
felt that there was a good mix of skills and members were well informed, prepared and able to challenge.
activities, the Committee was satisfied with
the effectiveness of the Internal and External Looking ahead: Committee priorities for 2025/26
Audit functions.
– Oversee and monitor the developments of financial and non-financial controls to support
April July September November February the attestations that the Board will make in 2027 in accordance with the 2024 UK Corporate
Frequency of reporting 2024 2024 2024 2024 2025 Governance Code;
Governance – Enhance the audit process through data-led metrics;
– Review the transition, controls and system separation of the Insurance and Money Services
Ethics and compliance (including fraud)
business; and
Terms of reference and committee – Further enhance the risk management framework, including greater clarity on risk appetite.
effectiveness review
Annual Report, half-year and full-
year results: fair, balanced and
understandable, Corporate Governance Karen Whitworth
Code compliance
Committee Chair
Policy review: including non-audit fees, 9 April 2025
Internal Audit charter
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 92 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 90.
Corporate governance report continued
Directors’ remuneration report
Remuneration Chair’s focus on improving pay competitiveness for our
hourly-paid colleagues and investing in their
Committee. wellbeing through our colleague discount and
Letter. virtual GP service.
Our core purpose – serving our customers,
communities and planet a little better every day
– remains central to our decision-making
Committee Chair Dear Shareholder, process. In this challenging economic climate,
Alison Platt. On behalf of the Remuneration Committee, it is more important than ever that we remain
I am pleased to present the Directors’ conscious of that when assessing our
remuneration report for the financial year remuneration decisions.
ended 22 February 2025.
Alongside consideration of our overall business
This report outlines the key decisions made performance, the table overleaf sets out some
Committee membership3 and tenure
Meeting by the Committee in the year, including our of the key factors that have been considered
Director Member since attendance proposed remuneration policy that is due to be throughout the year to ensure that our
Alison Platt, Committee Chair April 2016 4/4 put to a shareholder vote at the 2025 AGM, and remuneration decisions and implementation
Melissa Bethell1 June 2024 3/3 is in line with our previous policy. We set out how of the policy take into account the broader
Carolyn Fairbairn² September 2023 3/4 we have implemented our remuneration policy, perspective of our key stakeholders.
and how we intend to implement our proposed
Stewart Gilliland June 2023 4/4
policy in the coming year, in alignment with our
Byron Grote⁴ July 2015 to June 2024 1/1
purpose, values and strategic priorities. It also
Karen Whitworth¹ June 2024 3/3 provides an overview of both Executive Director Directors’ remuneration report index
1. Melissa Bethell and Karen Whitworth became members of the Remuneration Committee and wider workforce remuneration for the year. Chair’s letter 90
in June 2024. 2025 Remuneration policy consultation 93
2. Carolyn Fairbairn was unable to attend one meeting due to a known conflict at the time The Committee appreciates the strong
of joining the Board. Carolyn contributed to discussions in advance of the meeting. shareholder support for the remuneration Strategic alignment of remuneration 94
3. Thierry Garnier stepped down from the Remuneration Committee in June 2024. He attended report, which was approved by 93.5% of Remuneration for the year 96
one meeting during the year.
4. Byron Grote was a member of the Committee until he stood down from the Board in shareholders at the 2024 AGM. We value ongoing Implementation of remuneration
June 2024. He attended one meeting during the year. dialogue with stakeholders on remuneration policy for 2025/26 98
Committee activity matters, especially this year during our Wider remuneration at Tesco 101
remuneration policy review. Remuneration report 107
S enior management remuneration 6%
Delivering our strategic priorities and Committee governance 114
Remuneration Policy and
stakeholder experience 23% living our purpose Remuneration policy 117
Governance and reporting (including Throughout 2024/25, Ken Murphy and his team
wider-workforce remuneration) 26% have continued to drive our strategy forward,
Performance monitoring 45% with the strength of our customer offer
delivering both volume growth and market
Key activities in 2024/25 share gains. We have seen significant
– in-depth review of remuneration policy, incorporating views from major improvements in customer perception, with
shareholders and other stakeholders; our YouGov BrandIndex scores increasing
– extension of all employee share plan to colleagues in dunnhumby and across all measures.
Central Europe as part of improvements for wider workforce reward; and
Our continued success is a testament to our
– review of non-financial measures for variable reward, including joint
dedicated colleagues who have played a crucial
meeting with Sustainability Committee.
role in achieving our strategic priorities. This
year, we have continued to make significant
investments in our colleagues, with a particular
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 93 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 91.
Corporate governance report continued
Directors’ remuneration report
2024/25 business performance and incentive outcomes
Area Factors considered by the Committee
The remuneration for our Executive Directors is closely tied to the strong performance of the business.
Key stakeholders
Our policy reflects the complexities of managing a large-scale operation like Tesco and is comparable to
Customers – Improved customer satisfaction driving market share to 28.3% in the UK other FTSE 50 companies. A significant portion of the total package has been achieved due to Ken Murphy
and 23.9% in ROI. and Imran Nawaz meeting challenging targets in a competitive sector, creating value for all stakeholders.
– Launched over 1,000 new products and improved over 600, underscoring Tesco’s strong performance is reflected in the outcomes of the 2024/25 annual bonus and 2022
our commitment to quality and innovation. Performance share plan (PSP), as demonstrated below. Full details of performance against the
– Continued to offer over 1,000 products at Low Everyday Prices and more 2024/25 individual objectives in relation to the annual bonus plan are set out on page 108.
than 8,000 Clubcard Prices deals each week.
– Launched Tesco Marketplace.
– Tesco Whoosh is now in 1,500 stores. 2024/25 bonus achievement
Colleagues – Record investment of more than £300m in hourly store colleague pay.
– 85% of colleagues recommend Tesco as a Great Place to Work (+10% vs A pr d o ju fi s t t ( e m d a o x p 5 e 0 r % at ) ing 44.9%
market benchmark).
– Improvements to colleague benefits with wellbeing index up to 74%.
Group sales
Suppliers – Ranked 1st in Advantage supplier survey for 9th year running. (max 30%) 15.9%
– Further 16 brands included in 2024 Accelerator Programme.
– Re-launched the Sustainable Farming Group for pigs and sustainability
partnership with Arla and Müller UK. Individual 18% Ken Murphy
performance
Communities – Stronger Starts provided financial support to over 12,200 projects from (max 20%) 20% Imran Nawaz
community groups and schools.
– Continued ‘Kids Eat Free’ campaign in over 300 Tesco Cafés.
– Donated more than 300 million meals to charities and local communities 2022 PSP achievement
to date.
Adjusted
Shareholders – Group sales grew by 4% at constant exchange rates, driven by strong growth diluted EPS 26.1%
(max 37.5%)
across all operating segments. Adjusted operating profit increased by 10.9%
at constant exchange rates, driven by further progress in our core retail
Cumulative free
markets as higher sales volumes and a further £510m contribution from cash flow 37.5%
Save to invest more than offset our investments in the customer offer and (max 37.5%)
colleague pay. Additionally we saw growth in our insurance and money
services business.
ESG measures
– Bought back £1bn worth of shares in the year. Since October 2021, we have (max 25%) 12.0%
bought back £2.8bn worth of shares.
– Final recommended dividend of 9.45 pence in line with our progressive
dividend policy, taking the full year dividend to 13.70 pence, up 13.2% Within this Directors’ remuneration report we have used colour coding to define different
year-on-year. elements of remuneration:
– Tesco’s total shareholder return of 39.0% outperformed the FTSE 100 index Salary Benefits Annual bonus PSP Pension Shareholding
by 22.5% (Tesco TSR: 39.0% vs FTSE 100 TSR: 16.5%). Details of the definitions of the financial performance measures used throughout the Directors’
– The sale of our Banking operations during the year realised £700m of cash, remuneration report are set out on pages 117 to 119.
which will be returned to shareholders through an incremental buyback.
The overall formulaic vesting level for the annual bonus is 78.8% of maximum for Ken Murphy and
Wider factors considered
80.8% for Imran Nawaz. Based on the strong performance outcomes over the three-year period, the
Sustainability – Signed the UK’s largest solar corporate power purchase agreement. formulaic level of vesting for the 2022 PSP awards is 75.6% of maximum for both Executive Directors.
commitments – Trialling methane-reducing feed supplement for dairy cows. The PSP awards are delivered entirely in Tesco PLC shares and are subject to a further two-year
– Launched tenth ‘Tesco train’ to help cut freight road miles. holding period.
– Made positive progress on carbon reduction and diversity targets.
No discretion was applied to adjust the formulaic outcomes, and the remuneration policy operated
– Supplier challenges with food waste processing, leading to the withdrawing
as intended.
of previously reported food waste data.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 94 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 92.
Corporate governance report continued
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Further details of the performance outcomes The chart below shows a breakdown of fixed As part of this process, we engaged with a large Board and Committee changes
versus targets and the vesting of these awards and performance-based remuneration paid proportion of our shareholders, as well as
As previously announced, I will be stepping down
can be found in the Remuneration for the year to Ken Murphy and Imran Nawaz for 2024/25 listening to the views of our executives and the
from the Board and as Chair of the Committee
section on page 96. The Committee is satisfied and 2023/24. The small decrease in total wider workforce. Key areas of focus included at the conclusion of the 2025 AGM. I will be
that the measures and targets set were robust remuneration reflects slightly lower bonus levels the alignment of executive pay with business
succeeded as Committee Chair by Melissa
and challenging, reflecting the business and PSP vesting levels, although outcomes performance and competitiveness of our
Bethell and I would like to wish her every success
performance and wider stakeholder experience. continue to reflect strong performance against remuneration packages. We also reviewed
in this role. It has been a privilege to serve as
Despite the economic challenges, Tesco has stretching targets over a challenging period. market trends, regulatory developments and the
Committee Chair and I extend my sincere thanks
continued to lead the way on value, being broader economic environment, ensuring that
Remuneration policy review to the Committee members, both past and
recognised as Employer of the Year (Retail) our policy remains competitive and aligned with
present, for their support and guidance over
at the Grocer Gold Awards, and delivered its The current remuneration policy was approved the expectations of our key stakeholders.
the past three years.
commitments to shareholders. by 91.98% of shareholders at the 2022 AGM,
Having undertaken this review, we have
and is required to be put to shareholder vote at On behalf of the Committee, I would like to thank
determined that the current policy is working
the 2025 AGM. The Committee conducted a shareholders for their input and engagement
effectively and supports our goals of attracting,
comprehensive review of the remuneration throughout the year. We welcome any comments
retaining and motivating high-calibre executives
policy during the year to ensure that it remains you may have on this report and hope to receive
to deliver our strategic priorities. More details on
fit for purpose and continues to support us to your support at the 2025 AGM on our
the policy review and consultation are set out on
deliver our strategic priorities. remuneration resolutions.
the next page. The full policy can be found on
pages 117 to 122.
Breakdown of single figure remuneration
Looking ahead to 2025/26
Fixed pay Annual bonus payout PSP payout(a) Alison Platt
When considering base salary increases for our Committee Chair
Ken Murphy Imran Nawaz
senior executives, the Committee remains 9 April 2025
£10.24m mindful of the wider colleague experience and
£5.23m our fairness principles. Ken Murphy and Imran
£9.23m Nawaz will receive base salary increases of 2.0%
£4.69m and 4.0% respectively, effective 25 May 2025.
These are below the increase for UK hourly-paid
colleagues in 2025 of 5.2%.
For the 2025/26 annual bonus and 2025 PSP,
there will be no changes to opportunity levels,
performance measures or their weightings, as
the Committee believes these continue to
£5.10m incentivise the Executive Directors towards
£4.81m delivering the strategy.
£3.38m £2.49m
£2.25m
£2.88m
£1.62m £1.71m
£1.65m £1.64m
£0.94m £0.91m
2024/25 2023/24 2024/25 2023/24
(a) 2023/24 PSP estimated values have been restated based on the share price of 307.60p at the time of the PSP vesting.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 95 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 93.
Corporate governance report continued
Directors’ remuneration report
2025 Remuneration
policy consultation.
Timeline
Feb–May Jun–Jul Aug Sep–Feb Mar May–Jun
2024 2024 2024 2025 2025 2025
Internal review of current Committee review and Letter sent to major Consultation with major Letter sent to major Proposed policy published
policy, including interviews determination of potential shareholders and proxy shareholders and shareholders to explain in this Annual Report, and
with management and policy amendments. agencies setting out policy colleagues on the policy. how feedback was voting resolution being
Committee members to amendments under Committee discuss considered and set out put to shareholder vote
develop initial proposals. consideration. and agree final policy final policy proposals. at the 2025 AGM.
proposals.
Key areas of shareholder engagement
The consultation focused on two potential remuneration changes:
Potential consideration Feedback received Response to feedback in our proposals
Flexibility of bonus deferral In line with emerging market practice, New Investment Association (IA) Although many shareholders signalled support for a reduction in bonus
period (when shareholding we considered a potential reduction guidance supported this change. While deferral, we noted the feedback and concluded that a change is not required
requirement met). of bonus deferral for annual bonus many shareholders were comfortable at this time. We will, however, continue to monitor market practice.
awards when an individual has met their with a change, other shareholders
shareholding requirement. noted that shareholdings of Executive
Directors would be reduced.
Weighting of non-financial While there are no immediate plans to increase Consistent feedback from major The Committee welcomed the clear and consistent feedback from
measures in the PSP (within the weighting, the Committee sought views on shareholders that the current shareholders and does not intend to increase the weighting of non-
flexibility of the current policy). implementing a higher weighting on non- weighting of non-financial PSP financial PSP measures. If new measures emerge to drive our strategy,
financial measures in the future, in the event measures (25%) is appropriate. we may look to adjust or replace existing measures.
that this aligns with our future strategy.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 96 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 94.
Corporate governance report continued
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Strategic alignment
of remuneration.
The Committee believes it is vital that a significant proportion of Our remuneration approach supports our
the remuneration package for the Executive Directors and senior purpose and strategic priorities and reflects
management is performance-related and that performance measures the views of our stakeholders.
are aligned to our purpose and strategic priorities. Delivering against
There are four key principles which guide our
our purpose and strategic priorities is critical to the creation of
approach to reward for all our colleagues,
long-term, sustainable value for our key stakeholders: customers,
including Executive Directors:
colleagues, suppliers, communities and shareholders.
Our purpose Serving our customers communities and 1. Simple
planet a little better every day. H elping all colleagues to understand how
they are rewarded
Multi-year Drive top-line growth, underpinned by:
performance – Increasing customer satisfaction relative to the market.
framework – Growing our core UK market share. 2. Fair
Grow our absolute profits while maintaining sector-leading A chieving consistent outcomes through
margins through:
flexible and transparent policies
– Using our assets efficiently across all channels.
– Accessing new revenue streams across our digital platform.
– Targeting productivity initiatives to at least offset inflation in the
3. Competitive
medium term.
S etting pay with reference to internal
Generate between £1.4bn and £1.8bn free cash flow each year
relativity and external market practices
Strategic
priorities 4. Sustainable
A responsible and flexible approach,
Magnetic Easily the I love my Save to invest aligning reward to business strategy
value for most Tesco
and performance
customers convenient Clubcard
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 97 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 95.
Corporate governance report continued
Directors’ remuneration report
The tables below set out the performance measures we use within our incentive plans and how these align to our purpose
and strategic priorities to deliver the Group’s financial, operational and sustainability plans.
2025/26 bonus
Measures Alignment to strategic priorities Alignment to purpose
Group sales Our ambition is to drive top-line growth by increasing customer We aim to provide customers with brilliant, helpful service in
(30%) satisfaction relative to the market and growing our core UK market every corner of our business, with products and services that
share. are sustainable and accessible to all.
Group adjusted Our ambition is to grow absolute profits while maintaining sector-
operating profit leading margins through leveraging our assets efficiently across all
(50%) channels, accessing new revenue streams across our digital platform
and targeting productivity initiatives.
Individual Individual objectives are aligned to our strategic priorities. Further Individual objectives are aligned to each part of our purpose:
performance details are set out on page 16. customers, communities and planet.
(20%)
2025 PSP
Measures Alignment to strategic priorities Alignment to purpose
Cumulative free Profitable growth and free cash flow are key elements of our multi- We aim to continue to be a champion for customers, providing
cash flow (37.5%) year performance framework. They are aligned to the delivery and great value, high-quality products wherever, whenever and
success of our strategic priorities over the medium and long-term. however customers want them.
Adjusted diluted
EPS (37.5%)
Sustainability measures (25%)
Carbon reduction Aligns to our commitment to be carbon neutral across our own This is a critical time for our planet. As a responsible company
(8.3%) operations by 2035 against a 2015/16 baseline. we are therefore finding new ways to reduce our impact on the
environment and collaborate with our supplier partners and
customers to help them do the same.
Food waste Aligns to our commitment to deliver a 50% reduction in tonnage
reduction (8.3%) of food wasted (as a percentage of food handled), compared These measures bring to life our purpose to serve our planet a
with a baseline of 2016/17. For further details, please refer to the little better every day.
Sustainability Report.
Diversity, equity Aligns to our commitment to be an inclusive and equitable business, Embedding diversity and building inclusion into everything
and inclusion with diverse representation at all levels and a gender equal we do is key to our business success and helps us connect to
(8.3%) workforce, with the PSP measure based on percentage of women our colleagues, customers and communities. In doing so, the
and ethnically diverse colleagues in senior roles. measure brings to life our purpose to serve our customers and
communities a little better every day.
We continue to apply a high degree of rigour with regard to our sustainability goals and progress. For our most material issues, we publicly report progress with clear KPIs and provide full transparency
on our historical performance. Our reporting on these issues is assured by an independent third party. Wherever applicable, we align our reporting methodologies to recognised disclosure standards.
Our Sustainability Accounting Standards Board disclosure, along with all our KPI performance data can be found in our Sustainability Report, which is available on the Company’s website at
www.tescoplc.com/sustainabilityreport2025.
Our sustainability strategy will evolve over time and, as such, we anticipate that our sustainability performance measures will evolve to ensure they remain material to the business.
Further details of our approach to sustainability are detailed on pages 31 to 35.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 98 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 96.
Corporate governance report continued
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Remuneration
for the year.
Single figure remuneration (excluding buy-out awards) Fixed pay
Salary Benefits Pension Annual bonus PSP(a)
Salary Benefits Pension
Ken Imran Salary Benefits Pension
Ken Murphy 2024/25 £9.23m Murphy Nawaz increase packages allowance of
£1.45m £0.79m of 3.0% for remained 7.5% of salary
Ken Murphy unchanged remained
2023/24 £10.24m
and 5.4% for unchanged
Imran Nawaz
Imran Nawaz 2024/25 £4.81m from 26 May
2024
2023/24 £5.10m
0 £1m £2m £3m £4m £5m £6m £7m £8m £9m £10m £11m
(a) The PSP figures for 2024/25 relate to the 2022 PSP award and are estimates based on the average share price over the three months to 22 February 2025
of 370.34p. These will be restated in next year’s Directors’ remuneration report to show the actual value upon vesting.
Annual bonus outcomes (audited)
Outcome
Threshold Target Stretch Actual
Weighting (25% payout) (50% payout) (100% payout) (at constant rates) Ken Murphy Imran Nawaz
Group sales 30% £61.9bn £63.8bn £65.8bn £64.0bn 15.9% 15.9% Value of annual bonus
Group adjusted operating profit 50% £2.74bn £2.96bn £3.18bn £3.14bn 44.9% 44.9% Ken Murphy Imran Nawaz
Individual objectives 20% Details of performance are set out on page 108. 18.0% 20.0% £2.88m £1.62m
Total (% of maximum) 78.8% 80.8%
2022 PSP vesting (audited)
Threshold Stretch
Weighting (25% payout) (100% payout) Actual Outcome
Cumulative free cash flow 37.5% £3.9bn £5.8bn £5.9bn 37.5% Value of PSP
Adjusted diluted EPS 37.5% 20.9p 31.8p 27.4p 26.1% Ken Murphy Imran Nawaz
Sustainability measures: £4.69m £2.25m
– Carbon reduction 8.3% 56% 60% 65% 8.3%
– Food waste 8.3% 48% 55% (14)% 0.0%
– Diversity, equity and inclusion (gender/ethnicity) 8.3% 32%/13% 40%/15% 32%/14% 3.7%
Total (% of maximum) 75.6%
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 99 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 97.
Corporate governance report continued
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Fixed versus performance-linked remuneration
A significant proportion of Executive Directors’ remuneration is performance-linked, long-term and at risk for a period during which the Committee can withhold vesting or recover sums paid. The charts below
show the fixed and performance-linked and short-term and long-term elements of pay for the Group Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer based on maximum payouts in 2024/25. As half of the annual
bonus payout is deferred into Tesco shares for three years, it is deemed long-term for the purpose of the chart.
Pay at risk
Salary Benefits Pension Annual bonus cash Annual bonus shares PSP Annual bonus: Performance period Deferred period – half of actual bonus deferred into shares
PSP: Performance period Holding period
Fixed 18% Performance-linked 82%
Ken Murphy
2024/25 2025/26 2026/27 2027/28 2028/29
Short-term 37% Long-term 63%
Annual bonus
Fixed 18% Performance-linked 82%
Imran Nawaz PSP
Short-term 38% Long-term 62%
Shareholding requirement (audited) Executive Director shareholdings (% of base salary) (audited)
Share ownership is a key means by which the interests of Executive Directors are aligned with those Shares owned outright Deferred share awards Vested PSP shares subject to two-year holding period
of shareholders. Ken Murphy and Imran Nawaz have both reached their shareholding requirements
of 400% and 300% of base salary respectively. Target
20%
Ken Murphy 236% 234% Total
490%
400%
Target
Imran Nawaz 396% 198% 204% Total
798%
300%
Executive Director shareholdings counting towards shareholding requirement (audited)
Further details of Executive Directors’ shareholdings and share interests are given in the table below and on page 111.
Total shares counting
Vested PSP shares towards shareholding
Shareholding Current Number of shares owned outright Deferred share awards(b) subject to holding period requirement
requirement shareholding
(% of salary) (% of salary)(a) 24/02/24 22/02/25 24/02/24 22/02/25 24/02/24 22/02/25 24/02/24 22/02/25
Ken Murphy 400% 490% 78,396 80,982 605,607 932,425 – 925,184 683,983 1,938,591
Imran Nawaz 300% 798% 841,811 854,974 264,672 428,383 – 439,746 1,106,483 1,723,103
(a) Share price used is the average share price over the three months to 22 February 2025 of 370.34p.
(b) Net number of shares after deemed statutory deductions of 47% count towards the shareholding requirement.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 100 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 98.
Corporate governance report continued
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Implementation of remuneration policy for 2025/26.
The purpose of the remuneration
Total pay over five years
policy remains to attract, retain
and motivate the talent capable of Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5
delivering our purpose and strategy Fixed pay
and provide clear leadership. In (base salary,
benefits and
this way, it aims to create long-
pension)
term sustainable performance
and increased shareholder value.
50% in cash
Annual One-year 50% in shares
The table and details below set out a summary of Three-year deferral period
bonus performance
the proposed remuneration policy for Executive No further performance conditions
period
Directors and implementation in 2025/26. The
diagram to the right illustrates the time period
of each element of pay. Full details of the
remuneration policy that shareholders are asked
PSP Three-year performance period Two-year holding period
to approve at the 2025 AGM are on pages 117 to
122. This will also be made available on the Tesco
website at www.tescoplc.com.
Pay element, purpose
and link to strategy Operation Implementation in 2025/26
Base salary Salaries are normally reviewed annually by the Committee, with changes being effective on or around 1 June. Increases of 2.0% and 4.0% will be applied to the
Supports the attraction and Salaries take account of: salaries of Ken Murphy and Imran Nawaz, respectively.
retention of the best talent with – individual performance; Salaries from 25 May 2025 are:
the capability to develop and – role, skills and experience; Ken Murphy: £1,493,729
deliver Tesco’s strategy. – pay and conditions elsewhere across the Group, including the wider workforce; and
– salary levels at leading FTSE companies and other large consumer businesses in the UK and internationally. Imran Nawaz: £832,000
Any increases will normally be no higher than the typical level of increase awarded to other colleagues. Higher increases These increases are below those awarded to UK
may be awarded in certain circumstances such as where there is a change in responsibility, experience or a significant hourly-paid colleagues of 5.2%.
increase in the scale of the role.
Benefits Core benefits include a car or cash allowance and a driver, incapacity benefits, private medical insurance and life Normal Company benefit provision.
Provides market-competitive and assurance. Other benefits (including relocation and commuting support) may be offered as required. There is no
cost-effective benefits to support pre-determined maximum limit. See page 101 for further details of benefits
the attraction and retention of provided in 2024/25.
Executive Directors.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 101 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 99.
Corporate governance report continued
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Pay element, purpose
and link to strategy Operation Implementation in 2025/26
Pension A defined contribution scheme or a cash allowance in lieu of pension. The maximum company contribution for Executive Cash allowance of 7.5% of base salary.
Provides a competitive level Directors of 7.5% of base salary is aligned to the wider workforce.
of retirement income to support
the attraction and retention
of Executive Directors.
Annual bonus Maximum opportunity The maximum bonus opportunity for Ken Murphy
Encourages improved operational The maximum award is 250% of base salary. and Imran Nawaz is 250% of base salary.
and financial performance and Performance measures Performance measures (as a percentage of maximum)
aligns the interests of Executive Bonuses are based on financial, operational and individual performance. Performance metrics and targets are set by the are in line with previous years:
Directors with shareholders Committee at the beginning of the performance period and at least 70% of bonus is based on financial performance. Up – 50% Group adjusted operating profit
through the partial deferral of to 25% is paid for threshold performance and 100% paid for achieving stretch targets, with straight-line vesting between – 30% Group sales
bonus outturn into Tesco shares. threshold and target, and target and stretch. – 20% individual performance
Compulsory deferral of bonus The Board considers bonus targets to be commercially
Half of the bonus payout is deferred into Tesco shares for three years, subject to continued employment. This provides sensitive as they could inform Tesco’s competitors
assurance that the Group is being run in the long-term interests of shareholders and other stakeholders beyond the about our budgeting. However, full and transparent
annual bonus performance period. It also provides assurance to stakeholders that some or all of the deferred bonus could disclosure of targets and performance outcomes will
be withheld, if during the deferred period this is deemed necessary. Dividend equivalents in the form of additional shares be set out in next year’s annual report.
are payable on deferred annual bonus awards that vest. Malus and clawback provisions apply. See page 107 for further details of annual
bonus outturns for 2024/25 and page 115 for
details of malus and clawback provisions.
PSP Maximum opportunity The maximum award opportunity for Ken Murphy
Encourages the achievement The maximum award is 350% of base salary. and Imran Nawaz is 275% of base salary.
of Tesco’s strategic, financial Performance measures Performance measures (as a percentage of maximum)
and sustainability targets and Awards are subject to the achievement of financial and non-financial performance conditions over three years. are in line with previous years being:
provides a focus on long-term Performance metrics and targets are set by the Committee at the beginning of the performance period. Up to 25% of an – 37.5% adjusted diluted EPS
value creation and alignment award vests for threshold performance and 100% vests for achieving stretch targets, with straight-line vesting between – 37.5% cumulative free cash flow
with the interests of shareholders them unless stated otherwise. Dividend equivalents in the form of additional Tesco shares are paid on PSP awards that – 25% sustainability measures
and other stakeholders. vest. Malus and clawback provisions apply. See pages 109 and 110 for further details
Additional holding period of 2022 PSP outturn and the PSP awards to be
Following the vesting of the PSP award, Executive Directors are required to hold the shares for an additional two-year period, granted in 2025. Details of malus and clawback
so the overall vesting and holding period is at least five years. The holding period continues to operate post-cessation of provisions can be found on page 115.
employment, with shares held in a corporate sponsored nominee account. This ensures continued longer-term alignment
with the interests of shareholders and other stakeholders. It also provides assurance to stakeholders that some or all of
the PSP payout could be withheld, if during the holding period this is deemed necessary.
All-colleague share plans Executive Directors are eligible to participate in applicable all-colleague share plans on the same basis as other eligible SAYE and BAYE plans will continue to be operated in
Encourages widespread colleague colleagues in the UK. These currently comprise the Company’s Save As You Earn (SAYE) and Buy As You Earn (BAYE) plans. 2025/26.
share ownership to enable
colleagues to share in the
success of Tesco.
Shareholding requirement In-post shareholding requirement Shareholding requirement will continue to be
Ensures alignment between The Group Chief Executive is required to build and maintain a holding of shares to the value of 400% of base salary, and the operated in 2025/26.
the interests of the Executive Chief Financial Officer to 300% of base salary. Executive Directors are required to retain all shares that vest to them, net of See pages 97 and 111 for further details of
Directors and shareholders both any tax liability, whether from the annual bonus, PSP or buyout awards, until the relevant shareholding requirement is satisfied. Executive Directors shareholdings and
during and after employment. Post-cessation shareholding requirement interests in share awards.
Following their departure from the Company, Executive Directors are required to hold the lower of their shareholding
requirement or their actual shareholding for two years. They must hold their shares covered by the post-cessation
shareholding requirement in a corporate sponsored nominee account.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 102 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 100.
Corporate governance report continued
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Approach to remuneration
In developing its approach to remuneration, the Committee considers that the executive remuneration framework addresses the following factors:
Clarity – Our remuneration policy is designed to be sustainable, simple and support the delivery of Tesco’s strategy and purpose of serving our customers, communities and planet a little better
every day.
– The Directors’ remuneration report sets out the remuneration arrangements for the Executive Directors in a clear and transparent manner.
– The Board has designated Non-executive Directors to host Colleague Contribution Panels to engage on various topics to ensure internal clarity on remuneration. You can find further
details on how the Board engages with stakeholders on pages 20 to 22.
Simplicity – The Company operates an approach to remuneration that is simple to understand and familiar to stakeholders. Executive Directors receive a fixed element (base salary, benefits and
pension) and participation in a short-term incentive (an annual performance-related bonus) and single long-term incentive (the PSP).
Predictability – Payouts under the annual bonus and PSP schemes are dependent on the performance of the Company over the short and long term, and a significant proportion of Executive Director
remuneration is performance-related.
– These schemes have a maximum opportunity, with details set out in the Directors’ remuneration report clearly showing potential performance and reward outcomes.
Proportionality – Our annual bonus and PSP plans provide clear alignment between incentive outcomes and the achievement of Tesco’s purpose and strategy, with stretching performance conditions set
to achieve commensurate reward for commensurate performance.
– Performance measures have been selected to support the Group’s purpose and strategic priorities and consist of both financial and non-financial measures.
– Use of annual bonus deferral, PSP post-vesting holding periods and shareholding requirements (including after leaving Tesco) ensures that Executive Directors have a strong drive to
ensure that performance is sustainable over the long term.
– Stretching performance conditions, along with the discretion available to the Committee to adjust formulaic outcomes, ensure that outcomes do not reward poor performance.
Risk – The Committee has designed incentive arrangements that do not encourage inappropriate risk-taking.
– The Committee retains overall discretion in both the annual bonus and PSP schemes to adjust payouts where formulaic outturns are not considered reflective of underlying performance
and individual contributions.
– Malus and clawback provisions apply to variable incentives, including in the event of any behavioural risks. You can find further details on malus and clawback provisions on page 115.
Alignment to culture – Performance measures used for the annual bonus and PSP schemes are selected to align with Tesco’s purpose, values and strategic priorities, with a strong focus on delivering for our
customers and other stakeholders.
– The use of annual bonus deferral, PSP holding periods and shareholding requirements promotes integrity and provide a clear link to the ongoing performance of the Group to ensure
alignment with shareholders, which continues after employment.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 103 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 101.
Corporate governance report continued
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Wider remuneration
at Tesco.
Our pay and reward framework Cascade of remuneration
The shape of the reward package depends on the role of colleagues. Remuneration for most Consistent with best practice, the Committee spends considerable time on matters relating to
colleagues is principally fixed pay to support a good standard of living. For more senior colleagues, remuneration arrangements across the Group. Details of pay trends for the wider workforce provide
who have greater influence on overall Tesco performance, remuneration is weighted more towards context when making decisions regarding remuneration for the Executive Directors as well as ensuring
variable pay, which can increase or decrease based on business and individual performance consistent approaches and competitive reward packages are being adopted throughout Tesco.
against our challenging goals. While the balance of the elements of remuneration may differ, our
The table below summarises the reward and benefits package of UK colleagues and how it compares
consistent overall principle is that all colleagues should be paid competitively against the relevant
to Executive Directors’ remuneration.
pay benchmark.
We regularly ask colleagues across the Group how they feel about pay and benefits at Tesco. In our
2025 Every Voice Matters colleague survey, 68% of colleagues agreed that the total reward package
at Tesco is competitive, which is well ahead of relevant external benchmarks. In addition, 83% of
colleagues said they are able to work flexibly and 86% feel they can be themselves at Tesco, without
fear of judgement. 74% of colleagues feel Tesco supports them with their wellbeing. Our colleagues
are the heart of our business and Tesco remains committed to building an inclusive workplace where
everyone can get on. The survey showed that 85% of colleagues regard Tesco as a Great Place to Work
(10% above the market benchmark).
Element of pay Policy Comparison with Executive Directors’ remuneration
Colleagues at all levels
Base salary We want to attract and retain colleagues of the calibre, capability and experience needed to deliver the strategy. Salaries are The approach is the same for Executive Directors, with any
reviewed annually. increase normally no higher than the level awarded to other
colleagues.
Wellbeing benefits We want to help colleagues live a healthier and more sustainable lifestyle and ensure they have access to early and effective Executive Directors have access to the same level of
treatment, advice and information so they can be their best at work and home. wellbeing support and resources.
Colleagues at all levels have access to an Employee Assistance Programme which provides access to a wide range of experts
and resources to support colleagues’ mental and physical wellbeing. In addition, a 24/7 virtual GP service is available as well
as a hub providing access to mental, physical and financial resources.
Other benefits A market-competitive level of benefits is available for all colleagues, enhancing the reward package and providing other Executive Directors also receive market-competitive
reasons to work at Tesco, such as our Colleague Clubcard discount and colleagues deals and offers. In 2024, we launched a benefits, including the same discount in store as other
flexible benefits platform for our salaried colleagues in the UK. Further details are set out on page 104. colleagues. Further details are set out on page 118.
Pension A defined contribution pension scheme is available to all colleagues, with colleague contributions being matched by Tesco. The maximum contribution into the defined contribution
When colleagues get closer to retirement, Tesco provides education and support to plan for the next stage in their lives. scheme of 7.5% for Executive Directors is aligned to the UK
wider workforce.
Executive Directors can elect to receive a cash allowance
of 7.5% of base salary in lieu of pension contribution.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 104 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 102.
Corporate governance report continued
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Element of pay Policy Comparison with Executive Directors’ remuneration
Share plans Buy As You Earn (BAYE) and Save As You Earn (SAYE) plans are available to all colleagues and provide an opportunity to become Executive Directors participate on the same terms as
a shareholder in Tesco and share in its success. other UK colleagues in the BAYE and SAYE plans.
All salaried colleagues
Annual bonus The annual bonus incentivises eligible colleagues to deliver Tesco’s short-term financial and strategic objectives and share The annual bonus plan for Executive Directors is directly
in our success. A consistent design is operated throughout Tesco for delivering against business and individual goals. linked to the same financial performance measures as
Specific weightings and award levels vary by work level. For senior leaders, a proportion of any bonus is deferred into shares. all colleagues.
Bonuses are normally paid to eligible colleagues in May or June. Half of the bonus payout for Executive Directors is deferred
into Tesco shares for three years.
Executive Directors, Executive Committee and senior leaders
Performance The PSP incentivises the delivery of long-term value creation and aligns with our purpose and strategic objectives. Award The same measures and targets are applied to Executive
Share Plan (PSP) levels vary by work level. Directors awards as other participants.
Measures and targets for long-term incentive plans are consistent for all participants and measured over a three-year period. Executive Directors’ PSP awards are subject to an additional
two-year holding period post vesting.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 105 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 103.
Corporate governance report continued
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Performance and change in Group Chief Executive remuneration
The graph below illustrates the Company’s total shareholder return (TSR) performance against the FTSE 100 index over the past 10 years. We have chosen the FTSE 100 index because it is a broad-based index
of which the Company has been a constituent member throughout the period. The table below the TSR graph shows the Group Chief Executive’s annual remuneration over the same period.
Historical total shareholder return performance
Value of hypothetical 250
£100 invested
FTSE 100 Tesco
Source: Workspace
by LSEG 200 197
183
154 157
141
150
113 117 121 117 118 142
100 133
91 121
100
100 98 101
93
84
75 77
50
0
2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24(b) 2024/25
Group Chief Executive Ken Murphy – – – – – 992 4,745 4,443 10,243 9,226
single total figure of
remuneration (£’000) Sir Dave Lewis(a) 4,632 4,147 5,113 4,600 6,328 1,650 – – – -
Annual bonus outturn
(% of maximum award) 96.0% 76.0% 73.0% 52.5% 75.9% 0% 95.0% 79.1% 95.0% 78.8%
PSP vest
(% of maximum award) – – 30.0% 28.8% 48.8% 23.1% – – 85.0% 75.6%
(a) Sir Dave Lewis stepped down as Group Chief Executive on 30 September 2020 and was succeeded by Ken Murphy on 1 October 2020.
(b) 2023/24 PSP estimated values have been restated based on share price of 307.60p at the time of the PSP vesting.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 106 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 104.
Corporate governance report continued
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Spotlight on:
Colleagues. Continued investment in colleagues’ Colleague wellbeing remains a major area of
reward and skills focus. We provide free, confidential support £900m
through our Employee Assistance Programme
We have a strong track record of making
and free 24/7 access to a virtual GP. We have
At Tesco, our people are at the heart substantial investments in colleague pay. In also introduced resources to support mental investment in store
of everything we do. March 2025, we announced pay increases of health and financial wellbeing. In recognition of colleague pay, an
5.2% for store colleagues, bringing the hourly ongoing cost-of-living challenges, we have also increase of 32%
We believe that our people are what set us apart, rate to £12.64 from the end of August 2025. This increased the range of free products that we since April 2022.
and we are dedicated to creating an environment represents a total increase of 32% since April
offer in Colleague Rooms for everyone working
where everyone can succeed, regardless of their 2022, amounting to an investment of more than
in stores.
background. As our business evolves, we want to £900m. These changes reflect our commitment
ensure colleagues have the skills they need to to providing competitive pay and recognising These benefits reflect our commitment to
succeed now and in the future. the contribution of our colleagues. ensuring our colleagues feel valued and
supported, both in and out of the workplace.
Our colleagues want to be treated fairly and We are also investing in our colleagues’ skills
feel supported with their health, safety and to equip them for the present and future. Our Opportunities to share in
wellbeing, while being recognised and rewarded store colleagues have become more skilled Tesco’s success
for their contribution. To ensure our colleagues and flexible, while managers have undertaken
We want colleagues to feel recognised and
feel secure and valued, we offer a reward training to improve their abilities.
respected wherever they work, as well as
package that is competitive, fair, simple and
Balanced benefits package experience the reward of our collective
sustainable. Inclusivity and fairness are at the
success. Under our SAYE scheme, in 2024 more
core of our approach, and we continuously At Tesco, we feel a duty of care to provide our
than 20,000 colleagues, mainly shopfloor
strive to enhance the wellbeing of our team. colleagues with a competitive benefits package
colleagues working in stores and distribution
Safety is central to how we do business, with that supports their different needs in addition
centres, shared in a profit of more than £30m
a heavy focus on protecting our colleagues. to base pay, across all our markets.
as a result of strong growth in the Tesco share
We are positioned very competitively for both Our most valued benefit is the Colleague price over the duration of the scheme,
basic pay and total reward, which is supported Clubcard discount which was previously capped representing a profit of ~ £2,900 for a store
by positive feedback from our colleagues on at £2,000 in the UK and €2,000 in ROI. From colleague who invested the average £75 a
their reward package. Through our Every Voice April 2025, we are removing the cap so month for the last five years. Participation
Matters survey – the largest colleague colleagues benefit from the discount on all in the SAYE continues to grow in the UK,
engagement programme in the UK – colleague their shopping. and we have extended the plan to
scores on both working at Tesco and their We know that colleagues want flexibility and colleagues in India and Central Europe.
reward package are significantly ahead of our
we continue to look for ways to provide choice.
external partner’s global benchmark. In 2025,
The option to buy extra holiday has proved
85% of colleagues said that they would
to be popular and we have introduced
recommend Tesco as a Great Place to Work,
improvements to family leave and sickness
an increase from our 2024 score of 84%.
policies.
Over the last year, we have balanced wider cost
A new flexible benefits platform enables
pressures with our commitment to improving
colleagues to make selections that suit their
rewards and introducing new initiatives. We are
lifestyle, whether that’s investing in their
proud to have been recognised for our efforts,
pension or Tesco shares, or taking advantage of
winning ‘Employer of the Year (Retailer)’ at the
salary sacrifice, such as our Green Car and
Grocer Gold Awards 2024. Additional details on
Cycle to Work schemes. In 2025, we introduced
how our reward and benefits have evolved over
opportunities for colleagues to reinvest their
2024 are outlined as follows:
bonus directly into their pension and take
critical illness insurance cover.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 107 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 105.
Corporate governance report continued
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Relationship between the pay of the Group Chief Executive and UK colleagues working week. We believe the ‘best equivalent’ colleagues identified are reasonably representative
Tesco is a retail business with one of the UK’s largest workforces. We employ around 260,000 of the 25th, 50th and 75th percentiles as Tesco has compiled pay on an FTE basis. We reviewed pay
UK-based colleagues in our major subsidiary, Tesco Stores Limited. These are mostly in customer- across a sample of colleagues at each percentile before selecting the colleague who was most
facing roles in-store or in our distribution network. Given the workforce profile, all three of the Group representative.
Chief Executive pay ratio reference points compare our Group Chief Executive’s remuneration with
In the case of the Group Chief Executive, his total remuneration includes a significant proportion of
that of colleagues in mainly customer-facing roles. There is relatively little difference in the outcomes,
variable pay. The STFR therefore varies considerably depending on the level of performance against
as we show below. Regardless of the Group Chief Executive pay ratio, Tesco will continue to invest in
the measures driving the annual bonus and PSP. The Group Chief Executive’s PSP award will vest at
competitive pay for all colleagues.
75.6% of maximum in 2025 and the annual bonus paid out at 78.8% of maximum, which have resulted
The following table shows the ratio between the consolidated single total figure of remuneration in a small decrease in the Group Chief Executive’s pay ratio numbers this year. Since 2014, the median
(STFR) of the Group Chief Executive for 2024/25 and the lower, median and upper quartile pay of pay ratio has varied, increasing and decreasing in alternate years in line with variable pay outcomes.
our UK colleagues. We also show for comparison the pay ratios for the five preceding years.
As we set out on page 101, we base our reward framework across the Group on a consistent set of
Total pay ratio principles for all: that overall remuneration should be competitive when compared to similar roles
in other organisations with which we compete for talent. We therefore determine colleague pay using
2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24 2024/25
the same principles as the pay for our Executive Directors. On this basis, we believe the median ratio
Ratio of CEO’s STFR
is consistent with the Company’s wider policies on employee reward, pay and progression.
25th percentile 355:1 136:1 251:1 231:1 447:1 411:1
Gender and ethnicity pay
50th percentile 305:1 118:1 224:1 197:1 431:1 373:1
Our business model is underpinned by understanding customers and creating a great place to work
75th percentile 279:1 116:1 216:1 182:1 388:1 325:1 for our colleagues. It therefore follows that we need a diverse and inclusive workplace that represents
the communities we serve.
The table below sets out the base salary, total pay and benefit details of the Group Chief Executive
and UK colleagues who are at the 25th, 50th and 75th percentile. Our 2024 Gender Pay report shows the median gender pay gap for Tesco UK colleagues is broadly flat at
5.1% (versus 5.0% in 2023), significantly below the UK national average of 13.1%. The key factor behind the
gap is that a greater proportion of male colleagues work in roles which carry a premium and increase
2024/25
pay. If we remove premium payments from our calculation, our median pay gap reduces to 2.3%.
Group Chief Executive’s base salary £1,453,777
Group Chief Executive’s total pay and benefits £9,225,993 The mean gender bonus gap for Tesco Stores Limited has reduced from 58.3% to 36.7%. The main factor
UK colleagues’ salary behind the gap is a greater proportion of male colleagues in senior roles which attract higher bonus
levels. We have introduced a number of initiatives to improve the proportion of women at leadership
Colleague at 25th percentile £21,975
levels. These include support for flexible working, making it easier for everyone to work at Tesco.
Colleague at 50th percentile £23,960
We are also making progress in ethnic representation. For the second year, we have chosen to publish
Colleague at 75th percentile £27,430
our ethnicity pay gap which shows that the median gap for Tesco Stores Limited is (5.0)% (i.e. the
UK colleagues’ total pay and benefits
median pay for ethnically diverse colleagues is higher than for white colleagues). The primary factor is
Colleague at 25th percentile £22,452 a greater tendency for ethnically diverse colleagues to work unsociable hours which carry a premium,
Colleague at 50th percentile £24,731 plus a lower likelihood of selecting salary sacrifice benefits. The ethnicity bonus gap mean is 5.4%
Colleague at 75th percentile £28,358 reflecting a lower proportion of ethnically diverse colleagues in senior roles. As with gender, we have
introduced initiatives to improve representation at senior levels, including the inclusion of diversity
measures in our PSP.
The total full-time equivalent (FTE) pay and benefits for the relevant colleagues are based on the
period from Sunday, 4 February 2024 to Saturday, 1 February 2025. The reporting regulations offer
See our Everyone’s Welcome Report for more information at:
three calculation approaches for determining the pay ratio – Options A, B and C. We have chosen
www.tescoplc.com/media/fkklxpqd/tesco-everyones-welcome-report-2024.pdf
Option C for all years, which we deem the most appropriate methodology for Tesco.
As more than half of Tesco’s colleagues work part-time, the exercise required to determine FTE is
extensive and complex. Tesco decided to use Option C as we had completed comprehensive data
collation and analysis of all relevant colleagues for the purpose of gender pay gap (GPG) reporting.
This enabled us to use additional pay data (including overtime, salary sacrifice values and employer
pension contributions) to ensure the STFR reflects total pay made throughout the financial year. This
approach minimised the differing definitions of pay for STFR and GPG to enable us to select the ‘best
equivalents’ of P25, P50 and P75. The only adjustments made to determine the pay and benefits of the
colleagues identified as P25, P50 and P75 related to working hours, basing amounts on a 36.5-hour
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 108 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 106.
Corporate governance report continued
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Change in remuneration of colleagues and Directors
The table below shows the percentage change in the annual remuneration of Directors and the average UK colleague over the past five years.
The reporting regulations require disclosure of the change in remuneration of employees of the parent company. As the only employees of this company are the Executive Directors, the Committee decided
to use the average UK colleague as the appropriate comparator group. This is because they represent the majority of Tesco colleagues and the Executive Directors are predominantly based in the UK.
Salary/fees (% change) Benefits(e) (% change) Bonus (% change)(e)
2024/25 2023/24 2022/23 2021/22 2020/21 2024/25 2023 /24 2022/23 2021/22 2020/21 2024/25 2023/24 2022/23 2021/22 2020/21
Executive Directors
Ken Murphy 3.0% 2.8% 1.7% 0% – (26.1)% (50.0)% 170.5% 18.9% – (14.6)% 23.7% (14.8)% 100% –
Imran Nawaz 5.4% 4.0% 3.7% – – (6.1)% (24.8)% 162.2% – – (5.4)% 25.1% (8.3)% – –
Chair
Gerry Murphy 4.4% – – – – (32.8)% – – – – – – – – –
Colleagues
Average UK colleague(a) 9.1% 9.1% 8.6% 3.3% 6.8% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A
Non-executive
Directors
Melissa Bethell(b) 27.0% 3.1% 3.2% 2.2% 2.2% – – – – – – – – – –
Bertrand Bodson(b) 15.0% 3.1% 2.5% – – – – – – – – – – – –
Carolyn Fairbairn(b) 50.0% – – – – – – – – – – – – – –
Thierry Garnier(b) 15.0% 3.1% 2.3% – – – – – – – – – – – –
Stewart Gilliland 10.7% 25.0% 2.8% 2.8% 5.0% – – – – – – – – – –
Chris Kennedy(c) – – – – – – – – – – – – – – –
Alison Platt 4.5% 8.1% 13.8% 2.8% 5.0% – – – – – – – – – –
Caroline Silver(b) 15.0% 4.2% – – – – – – – – – – – – –
Karen Whitworth(b) 40.2% 3.6% 3.0% – – – – – – – – – – – –
Former Directors(d)
Byron Grote 2.7% 5.2% 12.3% 12.3% 3.0% – – – – – – – – – –
(a) We agreed jointly with our unions in 2019 that hourly-paid colleagues in stores would no longer receive an annual bonus, replacing it with a higher rate of base pay.
(b) On 14 June 2024 Carolyn Fairbairn was appointed as Senior Independent Director and a member of the Audit Committee, Karen Whitworth was appointed as Chair of the Audit Committee and member of the Remuneration Committee, Melissa Bethell was appointed as
a member of the Remuneration Committee, Melissa Bethell, Bertrand Bodson, Carolyn Fairbairn, Thierry Garnier, Caroline Silver and Karen Whitworth became members of the Nominations and Governance Committee, reflecting the fee increase changes in 2024/25.
(c) Chris Kennedy joined the Board on 20 February 2025 so no year-on-year comparison is possible.
(d) Byron Grote stepped down from the Board on 14 June 2024. To enable a meaningful year-on-year comparison his fees have been pro-rated for the purposes of comparison.
(e) Other than the Chair, Non-executive Directors receive fees only and do not receive any additional benefits or annual bonus payments. Gerry Murphy has the benefit of healthcare and a wellness programme for himself and his partner.
Please see page 105 of last year’s Directors’ remuneration report for historic details of events that impact the changes in remuneration, such as role changes, joiners and leavers.
Relative importance of spend on pay
The table below indicates how the pay of Executive Directors compares with other financial dispersals. You can find further information in the Notes to the Group financial statements starting on page 141.
2024/25 2023/24 %
£m £m change
Executive Directors’ remuneration 14.0 15.7 (10.9)%
Dividends and share buybacks 1,881 1,529 23.0%
Total income tax charge from continuing operations 611 525 16.4%
Colleague costs 8,726 8,161 6.9%
For every £1 we spent on Executive Directors’ remuneration in 2024/25, £44 was payable in tax and £622 was spent on colleague costs. In addition, £62 was made in dividend payments to shareholders for every
£1 spent on Executive Directors’ remuneration.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 109 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 107.
Corporate governance report continued
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Remuneration
report.
Single total figure of remuneration – Executive Directors (audited) Base salary (audited)
Executive Directors’ salaries were increased on 26 May 2024 by 3.0% from £1,421,786 to £1,464,440
The following table provides a summary Single total figure of remuneration (STFR) for 2024/25 and
for Ken Murphy and by 5.4% from £759,200 to £800,000 for Imran Nawaz. Details of increases to be
2023/24 for the Executive Directors.
applied in 2025 are set out on page 92.
Ken Murphy Imran Nawaz Benefits (audited)
2024/25 2023/24 2024/25 2023/24
(£’000) (£’000) (£’000) (£’000) Medical
insurance
Fixed pay and wellness
Car and driver programme Life assurance Other benefits Total
Salary 1,454 1,411 790 752 (£’000) (£’000) (£’000) (£’000) (£’000)
Benefits 88 119 92 98 Ken Murphy 73 2 10 3 88
Pension 109 106 59 56 Imran Nawaz 83 2 5 2 92
Total fixed pay 1,651 1,636 941 906
Annual bonus outcomes (audited)
Variable pay The annual bonus is determined by financial measures and individual performance, including objectives
Annual bonus (cash and deferred shares) 2,885 3,377 1,616 1,708 which are designed to support the achievement of certain strategic outcomes. The 2024/25 annual
PSP(a) 4,690 5,230 2,255 2,485 bonus outcome is 78.8% of maximum for Ken Murphy and 80.8% for Imran Nawaz. The annual bonus
Total variable pay 7,575 8,607 3,871 4,193 is paid 50% in cash and 50% in shares deferred for three years subject to continued employment.
As set out in the Chair’s letter on page 90, the Committee is satisfied that the formulaic annual bonus
Total fixed and variable pay 9,226 10,243 4,812 5,099
outcomes are appropriate and reflect Tesco’s performance over the performance period. We provide a
Compensation for forfeited income – – - 405(b) breakdown of the outturn of the financial measures on page 99. You can see details of the payouts and
Total remuneration 9,226 10,243 4,812 5,504 the achievement against individual objectives below and overleaf.
(a) The PSP figures for 2024/25 relating to the 2022 PSP award are an estimated value based on the average share price over the
three months to 22 February 2025 of 370.34p. These will be restated in next year’s Directors’ remuneration report to show the Actual total Actual bonus
actual value upon vesting. The estimated PSP figures for Ken Murphy and Imran Nawaz for 2023/24 have been restated, using the 2024/25 Bonus Bonus bonus (cash and deferred into
actual share price at the date of vesting of 307.6p and includes dividend equivalents in respect of vested shares. base salary opportunity outcome Actual bonus deferred shares) shares
(b) Details of compensation of forfeited income were set out in the 2023/24 Directors’ remuneration report. (£’000) (% base salary) (% maximum) (% base salary) (£’000) (£’000)
The total aggregate remuneration paid to all Directors in 2024/25 was £15.9m (2023/24: £17.1m). Ken Murphy 1,464 250 78.8 197 2,885 1,442
Imran Nawaz 800 250 80.8 202 1,616 808
The Committee is satisfied that the STFR for each Executive Director is appropriate.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 110 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 108.
Corporate governance report continued
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Achievement of individual objectives (20% of annual bonus)
Ken Murphy Imran Nawaz
Objective Key performance Summary of Assessment Objective Key performance Summary of Assessment
indicators performance indicators performance
Delivery of medium-term – Development of – Delivered successful Overachieved Long-term strategy – Develop plan for – Delivered successful Overachieved
and long-term strategy long-term strategy strategy review and development including long-term strategy strategy review
development – Operating profit future growth plans future growth plan – Future growth plans
contribution from incorporated into incorporated into
long-term growth Long Term Plan (LTP) LTP
plans – Combined Group
Deliver Group-wide Save to – Deliver £500m – Delivered savings of Overachieved
operating profit
invest target savings target c.£510m
contribution from
– Develop plan to – Longer-term savings
long-term growth
deliver longer-term plan agreed and
plans in line with
savings ready to be
plan
– Deliver year 3 of the deployed
Establish plans for future – Plans developed and – Plans agreed with Achieved Finance change plan – Year 3 Finance
shape of the organisation, agreed with Board Board, internal and – Deliver cash budget change plans
aligned with strategy external talent plans delivered in line with
development in place and on expectations
track – Delivered free cash
flow at upper end of
Lead the delivery of – Climate: continue to – Climate: clear Overachieved guidance range
Group-wide sustainability develop investment capital plans in
commitments: analysis for Group place to deliver our Ensure Corporate – Complete double – Double materiality Overachieved
estate to 2035 carbon Sustainability Reporting materiality analysis completed
– Climate: carbon neutral – Health: improve commitments Directive readiness assessment and and assessed for
across own operations by measure to 64% – Health: delivered reporting gap assurance
2035 – Food waste: 64% sales of healthy analysis readiness; gap
– Health: increase sales of roadmap to take products analysis complete
healthy products as a Food waste to 50% – Food waste: – Reporting strategy
proportion of total sales progressed from defined and agreed
– Food waste: reduce food trials to scaled for the Group in
waste across own operations for readiness for
operations bakery and produce revised timelines
waste; new
The percentage awarded for individual performance is based on an overall assessment of the
purpose-built
achievement of objectives and demonstration of leadership behaviours. On that basis, Ken Murphy
processing facility
achieved a rating of 18% and Imran Nawaz 20%, both out of a maximum of 20%.
due for completion
ahead of schedule
in 2025
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 111 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 109.
Corporate governance report continued
Directors’ remuneration report continued
2022 PSP vesting in 2025 (audited)
The outcomes of the 2022 PSP award are shown on page 96. As set out in the Chair’s letter, the Committee is satisfied that the formulaic PSP outcomes are appropriate, that they reflect performance over the
performance period and that there were no windfall gains. You can see details of the payouts to the Executive Directors below.
Value of shares due to vest
Dividend
equivalents
Face value Value due to accrued over
at time of share price performance
Shares Outcome grant(a) appreciation(b) period PSP total Vesting Holding
granted achieved (£’000) (£’000) (£’000) (£’000) date period
Ken Murphy 1,521,455 75.6% 2,870 1,251 569 4,690 24/06/2025 24/06/2027
Imran Nawaz 731,462 75.6% 1,380 602 273 2,255 24/06/2025 24/06/2027
(a) Calculated using the grant price of 249.5p.
(b) Calculated using the difference between the grant price of 249.5p and the average closing share price over the three months to 22 February 2025 of 370.34p.
2024 deferred bonus award grant (audited)
The following table summarises the deferred bonus awards made to Executive Directors on 12 May 2024 in respect of 50% of the 2023/24 bonus outcome. Awards were made in the form of conditional awards
which will vest and be released on 12 May 2027, subject to continuous employment.
Number of Value at Vesting Market price
Executive Director shares granted award date date on grant(a)
Ken Murphy 550,926 £1,688,368 12/05/2027 306.5p
Imran Nawaz 278,698 £854,098 12/05/2027 306.5p
(a) Based on five-day average share price.
2024 PSP grant (audited)
The following table summarises the PSP awards made to Executive Directors on 24 June 2024.
Value of End of
% of base salary Number of award performance Vesting Market price
Executive Director Type of award awarded shares granted at grant period date on grant(a)
Ken Murphy Conditional award 275% 1,305,247 £4,027,209 27/02/2027 24/06/2027 308.5p
Imran Nawaz Conditional award 275% 713,035 £2,199,998 27/02/2027 24/06/2027 308.5p
The performance measures(b) and targets for the 2024 PSP are:
Weighting Threshold(c) Stretch
Adjusted diluted EPS 37.5% 25.5p 38.2p
Cumulative free cash flow(d) 37.5% £3,968m £5,952m
Sustainability measures(e):
– Carbon reduction 8.3% 64% 70%
– Food waste reduction 8.3% 45% 52%
– Diversity, equity and inclusion (gender/ethnicity) 8.3% 37%/17% 43%/19%
(a) Based on five-day average share price.
(b) All measures have linear vesting between threshold and stretch, except food waste reduction for which the target is 50% with linear vesting between threshold and target, and target and stretch.
(c) Achievement of threshold will result in the vesting of 25% of the award granted.
(d) Adjustments have been made to the Cumulative free cash flow targets to reflect events not anticipated at the time targets were set, as set out on page 111. The original targets set were £4,000m and £6,000m at threshold and stretch respectively.
(e) The basis for sustainability measures is set out on page 95, in line with our strategic priorities.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 112 ---
Corporate governance report continued
Directors’ remuneration report continued
2025 PSP grant
The table below sets out the performance measures(a) and targets for the PSP award grant to be made in June 2025:
Weighting Threshold Stretch
Adjusted diluted EPS 37.5% 26.5p 39.7p
Cumulative free cash flow 37.5% £3,600m £5,400m
Sustainability measures(b):
– Carbon reduction 8.3% 68% 74%
– Food waste reduction 8.3% 47% 54%
– Diversity, equity and inclusion (gender/ethnicity) 8.3% 40%/18% 44%/20%
(a) All measures have linear vesting between threshold and stretch, except food waste reduction for which the target is 52% with linear vesting between threshold and target, and target and stretch.
(b) The basis for sustainability measures is set out on page 95, in line with our strategic priorities.
The award will incorporate the right to receive the value of dividends between grant and vesting in respect of the number of shares that vest. The calculation of dividend equivalents will assume the
reinvestment of those dividends in Tesco shares on a cumulative basis.
Comparator groups for remuneration
When setting the remuneration of Executive Positioning of remuneration versus the FTSE 50
Directors, one of the factors the Committee Lower quartile to median Median to upper quartile Tesco
considers is the relevant markets for the
Executive Directors; it believes this is the
FTSE 50. When reviewing the Group Chief
Executive’s remuneration, the Committee also
references remuneration of a group of leading 12,000
international companies whose selection is
based on their size and complexity.
The chart to the right sets out the market 10,000
positioning of the Group Chief Executive’s and
Chief Financial Officer’s on-target and maximum
remuneration compared to the FTSE 50. This 8,000
information is one of the inputs used by the
Committee when setting executives’
remuneration, which enables it to ensure
6,000
remuneration levels are consistent with the
approved remuneration policy.
4,000
2,000
0
)000’£(
noitarenumer
latoT
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 110.
Ken Murphy Imran Nawaz
Target Maximum Target Maximum
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 113 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 111.
Corporate governance report continued
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Adjustments to targets Performance measure Difference Rationale Awards Impact
The Committee considered adjustments to targets resulting from material events that were not Cumulative free cash Neutralise impact of tax Impact relates to an event not 2022 PSP £72.0m
anticipated at the time the targets were set. Adjustments were made to ensure PSP targets and flow relief for Tesco Bank anticipated at the time the 2023 PSP £72.0m
outcomes are assessed on a like-for-like basis and events do not make the targets any easier or targets were set 2024 PSP £72.0m
harder to achieve. The table below summarises the adjustments made, rationale, affected awards Neutralise impact of sale of Targets were set including 2023 PSP (87.0)m
and the impact on the measure: Banking operations discontinued Banking 2024 PSP (112.0)m
operations
Performance measure Difference Rationale Awards Impact
Adjusted diluted EPS Neutralise impact of sale of Targets were set including 2022 PSP (1.0)p
Banking operations discontinued Banking 2023 PSP (0.5)p
operations
Executive Directors’ interests in share awards (audited)
The table below sets out the Executive Directors’ interests in share awards. Details of Executive Director shareholding requirements and achievement against these are set out on page 97.
Vested but
Unvested Deferred annual Buyout unexercised share SAYE
PSP awards(a) bonus awards(b) awards options options Total
Ken Murphy At 24/02/2024 5,191,827 1,142,654 – – 9,890 6,344,371
Granted 1,305,247 550,926 – – – 1,856,173
Dividend equivalents 184,568 65,712 – – – 250,280
Vested/released (1,745,632) – – – – (1,745,632)
Lapsed (300,077) – – – – (300,077)
Exercised – – – – – –
At 22/02/2025 4,635,933 1,759,292 – – 9,890 6,405,115
Imran Nawaz At 24/02/2024 2,492,500 499,382 – – – 2,991,882
Granted 713,035 278,698 – – – 991,733
Dividend equivalents 89,789 30,189 – – – 119,978
Vested/released (829,711) – – – – (829,711)
Lapsed (142,629) – – – – (142,629)
Exercised – – – – – –
At 22/02/2025 2,322,984 808,269 – – – 3,131,253
(a) Awards will only vest to the extent that relevant performance conditions are met.
(b) No performance conditions apply to these awards but are subject to service.
Between 22 February and 9 April 2025 Ken Murphy acquired 37 partnership shares under the BAYE plan. No other changes in Executive Director share interests occurred in the period.
Payments for loss of office (audited)
There were no payments made for loss of office during the year.
Payments to former Directors (audited)
There were no payments made to former directors during the year.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 114 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 112.
Corporate governance report continued
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Executive Directors’ service agreements Board Chair and Non-executive Director fees
The Committee carefully considers Executive Directors’ service agreements, including arrangements The fees for the Board Chair and the Non-executive Directors are reviewed each year. The Board
for early termination, which are designed to recruit, retain and motivate Executive Directors of the Chair’s fee is reviewed by the Committee (without the Board Chair being present) and the Non-
calibre required to lead the Company. The details of existing Executive Directors’ service contracts executive Director fees by a committee comprising the Board Chair, Group Chief Executive and Chief
are summarised in the table below: Financial Officer. In July 2024, following a review of independently sourced data, increases awarded to
the wider workforce and the time commitments of the Board Chair and Non-executive Directors, it
Date of service Date joined the Notice period from Notice period from was agreed to increase the Board Chair’s fee to £727,000 and increase the average total fees paid to
Executive Director agreement Board Company Executive Director Non-executive Directors from 18 August 2024 by 2.8%, lower than for the wider workforce. This year
Ken Murphy 1 October 2019 1 October 2020 12 months 12 months we introduced a new fee of £3,500 to recognise the additional time commitment of those designated
Imran Nawaz 6 October 2020 1 May 2021 12 months 12 months Non-executive Directors who support our Tesco Colleague Contribution Panels. At the time of the
increase and of those FTSE 100 companies disclosing wider workforce engagement programmes, 65%
Neither Ken Murphy nor Imran Nawaz held an external directorship during the year. Both Ken Murphy paid an additional fee, setting a fee value typically comparable to an equivalent day rate. Details of the
and Imran Nawaz will stand for re-election at the 2025 AGM. remuneration arrangements for the Board Chair and Non-executive Directors are set out below:
Funding of equity awards 20/08/2023 to From
While current practice is to use market-purchased shares to satisfy incentive awards, the Company 17/08/2024 18/08/2024 Increase
has in the past 10 years used newly-issued shares. As such, the Company complies with the Board Chair fee £705,000 £727,000 3.12%
Investment Association dilution guidelines on newly-issued shares. These provide that overall dilution Non-executive Director fee £85,000 £87,500 2.94%
under all plans should not exceed 10% of the Company’s issued share capital over a 10-year period. Additional fees:
Tesco also implement a further limitation of 5% in any 10-year period for executive plans. Where
Senior Independent Director £35,000 £36,000 2.86%
shares purchased in the market are held by Tesco Employees’ Share Scheme Trustees Limited
Chairs of the Audit, Remuneration and Sustainability
or Tesco International Employee Benefit Trust (together, the Trusts), the voting rights relating to the
Committees £35,000 £36,000 2.86%
shares are exercisable by the Trustees in accordance with their fiduciary duties. At 22 February 2025,
Membership of Audit, Nominations and Governance,
the Trusts held 37,142,726 shares.
Remuneration and Sustainability Committees £16,500 £17,000 3.03%
Dilution from existing awards made over the past 10 years up to 22 February 2025 was as follows: Colleague Contribution Panel – £3,500 new
All colleague share plans
Actual Limit
2.5% 10%
Executive share plans
Actual Limit
0.5% 5%
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 115 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 113.
Corporate governance report continued
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Single total figure of remuneration – Non-executive Directors (audited)
The table below sets out the fees paid to the Non-executive Directors during the year. Non-executive Directors are not paid a pension and do not participate in any of the Company’s variable incentive
schemes. Under the Company’s articles of association, the total fees paid to Non-executive Directors are capped at £3m per annum. Byron Grote stood down from the Board on 14 June 2024.
Taxable expenses include expense reimbursements relating to travel, accommodation and subsistence in connection with attendance at Board and Committee meetings during the year. Each Non-executive
Director had the £2,000 colleague discount allowance. Gerry Murphy also has the benefit of healthcare and a wellness programme for himself and his partner. The amounts in the table below include the
grossed-up cost of UK tax paid by the Company on behalf of the Non-executive Directors.
2024/25 2023/24
Taxable Taxable
expenses and expenses and
Committee Date of Fees benefits Total Fees benefits Total
memberships appointment (£’000) (£’000) (£’000) (£’000) (£’000) (£’000)
Melissa Bethell A N R 24 September 2018 127 1 128 100 1 101
Bertrand Bodson N S 1 June 2021 115 – 115 100 1 101
Carolyn Fairbairn A N R S 1 September 2023 171 1 172 57 1 58
Thierry Garnier S N 30 April 2021 115 4 119 100 3 103
Stewart Gilliland N R S 5 March 2018 155 1 156 140 1 141
Chris Kennedy A N 20 February 2025 1 – – – – –
Gerry Murphy N 1 September 2023 716 4 720 343 3 346
Alison Platt N R 1 April 2016 140 1 141 134 1 135
Caroline Silver A N 1 October 2022 115 2 117 100 1 101
Karen Whitworth A N R S 18 June 2021 157 1 158 116 – 116
Former Directors
Byron Grote A N R 1 May 2015 57 – 57 183 1 184
Non-executive Directors do not have service contracts. Instead, they are engaged by letters of appointment that are terminable by either party with no notice period. There is no compensation in the event of such
termination, other than accrued fees and expenses. All Non-executive Directors will stand for re-election at the 2025 AGM, except Alison Platt who will step down from the Board at the conclusion of the 2025 AGM.
Beneficial share ownership – Non-executive Directors (audited)
The table below outlines interests in the Company’s securities of the Non-executive Directors. There were no changes to Non-executive Director share interests between 22 February and 9 April 2025.
Non-executive Directors are expected to build up and maintain a personal holding in the securities of the Company equal to the value of their base fee over a period of five years following appointment.
Value of
Shares held at Shares held at shareholding
Non-executive Director 24/02/2024 22/02/2025 (% of base fee)(a)
Melissa Bethell 37,447 37,447 158%
Bertrand Bodson 61,238 63,581 269%
Carolyn Fairbairn 35,000 35,000 148%
Thierry Garnier 15,000 15,000 63%
Stewart Gilliland 53,212 55,248 234%
Chris Kennedy – – 0%
Gerry Murphy 50,000 90,000 46%
Alison Platt 38,046 39,527 167%
Caroline Silver 15,000 15,000 63%
Karen Whitworth 52,300 52,300 221%
(a) The value of Non-executive Directors’ shareholdings is based on the average share price over the three months to 22 February 2025 of 370.34p. The range of the Company’s share price for the year was 279.5 to 397p. The year-end share price was 374.1p (2023/24: 280p).
(b) Byron Grote held 377,703 shares from 24 February 2024 until he retired from the Board on 14 June 2024.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 116 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 114.
Corporate governance report continued
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Committee
governance.
Role of the Remuneration Committee In addition, Directors regularly visit stores, distribution centres, customer engagement centres and offices
to meet with colleagues to gauge their overall opinions and assess our culture. We use the information
The role of the Committee is to determine the remuneration policy and packages for Executive
provided by colleagues to guide our approach to Executive Director and senior executive remuneration.
Directors and senior executives. When setting and operating the policy, the Committee aligns reward
to performance to promote the long-term success of the Group and has regard to policies and The Committee believes it is important to understand how colleague pay and other key colleague
practices relating to workforce remuneration, the experiences of other stakeholders and alignment metrics operate throughout the Group. The Committee therefore reviews the findings from the
with purpose, strategy and culture. This means we can recruit, retain and motivate our executives as Every Voice Matters colleague survey and receives regular updates throughout the year on colleague
part of an integrated overall approach to remuneration. metrics and outcomes via the wider workforce dashboard, which sets out a broad range of
information, including:
Committee’s priorities in 2025/26
– a summary of colleague demographics, colleague pay positioning split by location, a summary
As well as considering its standard business, the Committee will focus during 2025/26 on the following:
of colleague pay versus comparators;
– maintaining an ongoing dialogue with our major shareholders and other stakeholders and to – gender & ethnicity data and pay gap reporting, real living wage reporting;
continue to engage with them individually and collectively on the remuneration policy which will – Every Voice Matters survey results, UK Labour Turnover; and
be put to shareholders at the 2025 AGM; – salary budgets by business, incentive outcomes by business, CEO pay ratio.
– ensuring the smooth transition of chair to Melissa Bethell;
The Committee is therefore well-positioned to take into account colleagues’ views and pay when
– continuing to monitor and assess the external market when considering remuneration arrangements
setting the pay of Executive Directors and senior executives.
for Executive Directors and senior executives;
– monitoring developments on our purpose and strategy to ensure remuneration practices and Approach to target setting
policies continue to be consistent with the Group’s long-term goals and aligned to the interests
In determining the range of targets for each measure for the annual bonus and 2025 PSP grant, the
of all our stakeholders;
Committee considered the Board-approved budget and Long Term Plan, external consensus where it
– ensuring all aspects of remuneration are viewed through a sustainability lens. This will include
exists, prior-year achievement and the wider economic environment. As part of its work to ensure
monitoring our current sustainability measures and considering whether new measures should
targets are appropriately stretching, the Committee also considered the Board’s assessment of how
be used for future PSP awards to reflect our integrated sustainability strategy;
achievable the budget is. The performance target range is set on a realistic basis but requires true
– ensuring colleagues’ views on pay, policies and practices are attained through the Colleague
outperformance to achieve the maximum. The Committee has a history of setting stretching targets.
Contribution Panels, Every Voice Matters surveys and meetings and that these are reflected in the
decisions the Committee takes; and The annual bonus measures are selected to provide direct alignment with the Group’s short-term
– continuing to monitor and oversee wider workforce remuneration, policies and practices. This aims operational targets. The Committee takes care to ensure that the short-term performance measures
to ensure pay fairness and transparency across the workforce, that there is a consistent cascade are supportive of the strategic priorities and long-term objectives. The PSP performance measures
throughout the Group and that the rewards, incentives and conditions available to colleagues are are selected to ensure that executives are encouraged in, and appropriately rewarded for, delivering
taken into account when considering the remuneration of Executive Directors and senior executives. against the Group’s purpose and strategic priorities. This ensures a clear line of sight and alignment of
interests between executives and stakeholders and the generation of long-term sustainable returns.
Colleague engagement and understanding colleague pay
Annual bonus and PSP performance is monitored every six months by the Committee. At the end of
Engaging with colleagues and understanding their views is vital to the Committee and its decision
the performance period, one year for the annual bonus and three years for the PSP, we assess the
making. This year, two Colleague Contribution Panels (CCPs) for UK & ROI, Central Europe and
formulaic outcome of each performance measure on a standalone basis. The Committee considers
subsidiary businesses took place in November 2024, where colleague representatives met with
whether the formulaic outcomes are fair in the context of the Group’s performance and the wider
Alison Platt, Melissa Bethell and Carolyn Fairbairn to share their views which provide the Committee
stakeholder experience. The Committee may seek independent advice to assess the outcomes
with useful insight. Further details on this year’s CCPs can be found on page 69.
of specific measures as well as the overall outcome. Where appropriate, the Committee also has
the ability to use its discretion to adjust the formulaic outcomes.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 117 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 115.
Corporate governance report continued
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Discretion in relation to incentive plans The Committee also retains the right to change performance measures and the weighting of
measures in certain circumstances including:
The Committee operates the annual bonus and PSP in accordance with their respective scheme rules
and the relevant UK Listing Rules, consistent with market practice. The Committee retains discretion, – following feedback from regulators, shareholders and/or other stakeholders; and
within the confines and opportunity detailed above, regarding the operation and administration of – amending the scheme rules in accordance with their terms and/or amending the basis of operation
these plans. The discretion covers: (including but not limited to the approach in respect of dividend equivalents).
– the timing, size and type of awards, holding periods and the annual setting of targets; The Committee will disclose any exercise of discretion in accordance with regulatory requirements.
– when performance against our qualitative performance measures is not in line with the Group’s
overall financial or strategic performance over the performance period; Malus and clawback provisions
– ensuring compliance with the rules, including in relation to whether or not malus or clawback The Committee has the discretion to scale back deferred share awards and PSP awards prior to the
provisions should apply, in connection with recruitment, or terminations of employment, or satisfaction of such awards if:
corporate events affecting the Company;
– results are materially misstated;
– adjustments required in certain circumstances, including rights issues, corporate-restructuring
– the participant has contributed to serious reputational damage to the Company or one of its
events, special dividends and other corporate actions; and
business units;
– adjustments to targets and/or measures if events occur that cause the Committee to determine
– the participant’s conduct has amounted to serious misconduct, fraud, dishonesty, a breach of the
it is appropriate to do so.
Code of Business Conduct or material wrongdoing;
– the determination of the vesting or value of an award has been affected by an underlying incorrect
figure in the financial statements; or
– an error or miscalculation in determining the vesting or value of an award is identified.
2024/25
Under malus, deferred share awards and unvested PSP awards can be reduced (including down to
zero) or be made subject to additional conditions. Clawback allows for the repayment of previously
paid-up cash bonuses for a period of three years and PSP awards for a period of two years after the
The Committee considered the wider context and how the annual bonus and PSP
Early Feb vesting date. The clawback periods align with the bonus deferral period and PSP holding period. No
targets were tracking against forecast performance.
2024 such provisions were used during 2024/25.
The Committee considered the proposed structures of the annual bonus and PSP
awards and the possible targets and ranges. In doing so, it had regard to:
– wider workforce remuneration;
Late Feb
– the budget and Long Term Plan;
2024
– the strategic priorities;
– analysts’ consensus forecasts; and
– the wider economic environment.
The Board approved the budget for the year.
April
2024 The Committee determined the measures, weightings and targets for the annual
bonus and PSP for the forthcoming year and the outcomes of the prior year’s annual
bonus and 2021 PSP.
October
The Committee considered how the annual bonus and PSP targets were tracking
2024
against forecast performance.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 118 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 116.
Corporate governance report continued
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Committee advisor The Committee engages in regular dialogue with shareholders and annually invites major investors
to discuss its remuneration practices and governance matters. During the year, the Committee
To ensure that the Committee continues to operate in line with best practice, it has appointed PwC as
an independent external advisor. It is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and, as such, consulted shareholders in relation to the remuneration policy, as outlined on page 93, and met with
shareholders to hear their views directly.
voluntarily operates under the code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the
UK. PwC was initially appointed in 2015 and then reappointed in 2020 following a competitive tendering The Committee finds such meetings with major investors a valuable opportunity to receive feedback
exercise. on its work and the key issues it is considering. It also finds the feedback received extremely helpful in
informing its decisions. In addition, the Committee monitors the views of other stakeholders and
Total fees for advice provided to the Committee were £73,750 (2023/24: £65,000) on a time and
broader developments in executive remuneration generally.
materials basis. The wider PwC firm also provided Tesco with several other services during the year
relating to corporate and other tax compliance, governance, assurance, risk management and 2024/25 Effectiveness Review of the Remuneration Committee
consulting projects. However, the Committee is satisfied that the PwC engagement partner and
The effectiveness of the Committee was assessed as part of the external Board performance review.
advisory team which provide remuneration advice to the Committee have no connection with the
The review found that the Committee was performing effectively, noting discussions were of high
Company or individual Directors that might compromise their independence or objectivity.
quality and that members were encouraged to contribute and engage in respectful debate. Meetings
The Group Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, Chief People Officer and remuneration experts were well chaired, with high-quality papers provided for consideration. The Committee is well
from the Reward team attend meetings at the invitation of the Committee to provide advice and supported by both an exceptional internal team and PwC as external advisers. The Board is assured by
respond to questions. The Group Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee. No Directors the quality of the work performed by the Committee. The evaluation highlighted the need to support
or executives are present when their own remuneration is discussed and they are not involved in Melissa Bethell as the successor to the chair from June 2025 to ensure a positive transition and
determining their own remuneration. suggested that the balance of incentives be reviewed, with a focus on greater incentivisation of
initiatives linked to the strategy and our commitments to customers, communities, and the planet.
Voting at AGM
The table below sets out the voting outcome on the remuneration report at the 2024 AGM: Statutory requirements
The Committee’s composition, responsibilities and operation comply with the principles of good
Votes for Votes against Votes withheld governance, as set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code, the UK Listing Rules of the Financial
(millions) (millions) (millions)
Conduct Authority and the Companies Act 2006. The Directors’ remuneration report has been
Remuneration report 4,584 319 1
prepared on the basis prescribed in the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts
(93.49%) (6.51%) and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013.
Approved by the Board on 9 April 2025.
The current remuneration policy received strong shareholder support at the 2022 AGM:
Votes for Votes against Votes withheld
(millions) (millions) (millions)
Remuneration policy 5,148 449 8 Alison Platt
Committee Chair
(91.98%) (8.02%)
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 119 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 117.
Corporate governance report continued
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Remuneration
policy.
Remuneration policy Remuneration policy table
Our current remuneration policy was approved by shareholders at the 2022 AGM, with a vote of The following table sets out the remuneration policy:
91.98% in favour. During the year, the policy operated as intended in terms of Company performance
and quantum. It is intended that the new policy for Tesco’s Executive and Non-executive Directors will Base salary
operate for a period of three years from the date of approval at the AGM on 12 June 2025.
Purpose and link The role of base salary is to support the recruitment and retention of
During the year, the Committee conducted a comprehensive review of the remuneration policy to
to strategy Executive Directors of the calibre required to develop and deliver the
ensure that it remains fit for purpose and continues to support us to deliver our strategic priorities.
strategy. Base salary provides fixed remuneration for the role, which
The decision-making process that the Committee followed for the determination, review and
reflects the size and scope of the Executive Directors’ responsibilities
implementation of the proposed new remuneration policy is set out in the Chair’s letter on pages 90 and their experience.
to 92. As part of this process, we engaged with a large proportion of our shareholders, as well as
listening to the views of our executives and the wider workforce. Having undertaken this review, we Operation The Committee sets base salary taking into account:
have determined that the current policy remains effective and fit for purpose, and as such we are not
– the individual’s skills, experience and their performance;
proposing any changes to the policy set out below.
– salary levels at leading FTSE companies and other large consumer
In order to manage conflicts of interest, no Director or employee participates in discussions or business companies in the UK and internationally; and
decisions relating to their own remuneration. However, Executive Directors were kept well-informed – pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group.
to ensure alignment between executive and wider colleague remuneration structures. A summary of
Base salary is normally reviewed annually with changes effective on or
how the policy differs for Executive Directors and other colleagues in the Group is set out on
around 1 June. It may be reviewed more frequently if the Committee
pages 101 to 106. determines this is appropriate.
The Committee’s review of the remuneration policy sought to ensure that it continues to:
Maximum Executive Directors’ salary increases will normally be in line with the
– apply pay principles which are applicable to all colleagues across the Group and, in particular, the typical level of increase awarded to other colleagues in the Group.
principle that the reward package should support the delivery of the Group’s purpose of serving Increases may be above this level in certain circumstances such as:
customers, communities and the planet a little better every day;
– where a new Executive Director has been appointed to the Board at a
– be aligned with, and incentivise the delivery of, the Group’s strategy;
lower than typical market salary to allow for growth in the role. (In such
– foster performance in line with the Group’s culture, values and behaviours;
a case, larger increases may be awarded to move salary positioning
– be aligned with wider workforce pay policies (as set out on pages 101 and 102);
closer to the typical market level as the Executive Director gains
– take into consideration external benchmarking, based on other FTSE 100 companies;
experience); or
– motivate executive talent; and
– where an Executive Director has been promoted or has had a change
– drive the success of the Company for the benefit of key stakeholders.
in responsibilities, then salary increases in excess of the above limit
You can find a summary of the new remuneration policy on pages 98 to 100. The full remuneration may be awarded.
policy for the 2025 AGM is set out here and is available on the Tesco website at www.tescoplc.com.
Measure n/a
Change No change from current policy.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 120 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 118.
Corporate governance report continued
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Benefits Annual bonus
Purpose and link To provide a market-competitive level of benefits for Executive Purpose and link To reward Executive Directors for the delivery of Tesco’s annual
to strategy Directors and to assist them in the performance of their roles. to strategy financial, operational and strategic goals. Deferral into Tesco shares
provides alignment with shareholders.
Operation The Committee sets benefit provisions at an appropriate market-
competitive level, taking into account the individual’s home jurisdiction, Operation The annual bonus is normally delivered:
the jurisdiction in which the individual is based, typical practice and the
– 50% in cash; and
level of benefits provided for other employees in the Group.
– 50% in Tesco shares which are deferred for three years. Performance
Core benefits – currently include car benefits, security costs, health is assessed over a financial year. The Committee determines the level
insurance and life assurance. Other appropriate benefits may be of bonus, taking performance against targets and the underlying
provided from time to time but will not be significant. Executive performance of the business into account. The Committee may apply
Directors shall be reimbursed for all reasonable expenses. The Company judgement in making appropriate adjustments to bonus outcomes to
may settle any tax incurred in relation to these. Directors shall have the ensure they reflect underlying business performance. Malus and
benefit of Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance and the provision of clawback provisions apply as described on page 115.
an indemnity.
Maximum Maximum annual bonus opportunity of 250% of base salary. For details
All-employee share plans – Executive Directors are eligible to participate of award levels for 2025/26, see page 99.
in the Company’s all-employee share schemes on the same terms as
Measures The annual bonus may be based on a mix of financial, operational,
other colleagues.
strategic and individual performance measures. At least 70% of the
Mobility policy – when an Executive Director is required to relocate to bonus will be based on financial performance. The Committee
perform their role, they may be offered appropriate relocation determines the exact metrics each year depending on the key goals for
allowances and any required international transfer related benefits. the forthcoming year. Up to 25% of the bonus is paid for achieving a
threshold level of performance and the full bonus is paid for delivering
Maximum The overall level of benefits will depend on the cost of providing
stretching levels of performance. These vesting levels may vary each
individual items and the individual’s circumstances. There is therefore
year depending on the stretch of targets set. Below threshold
no maximum level of benefit.
performance, no payment is made.
Measure n/a
The Committee sets bonus targets each year to ensure they are
Change No change from current policy. appropriately stretching in the context of the business plan.
Change No change from current policy.
Pension
Purpose and link To provide an appropriate level of retirement benefits as a part of a Performance Share Plan
to strategy holistic benefit package.
Purpose and link To reward Executive Directors for achieving Tesco’s long-term strategy
Operation Executive Directors receive a cash allowance in lieu of pension or a to strategy and creating sustainable shareholder value that aligns the economic
contribution into a defined contribution scheme. interests of Executive Directors and shareholders.
Maximum Maximum cash in lieu of pension or contribution will be aligned to the Operation Awards normally vest based on performance over a period of not less
wider workforce (currently 7.5% of base salary). than three years (unless the Committee determines otherwise).
Measure n/a The Committee has the discretion to amend the formulaic vesting level
if it does not consider that it reflects the underlying performance of the
Change No change from current policy.
Company. All vested shares, net of any tax liabilities, will be subject to a
further two-year holding period after the vesting date. Malus and
clawback provisions apply as described on page 115.
Maximum The maximum annual award that can be granted under the PSP is 350%
of base salary. For details of award levels for 2025/26, see page 99.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 121 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 119.
Corporate governance report continued
Directors’ remuneration report continued
To facilitate buyout awards in the event of recruitment, the Committee may grant awards to a new
Performance Share Plan
Executive Director under Listing Rule 9.4.2. This allows awards to be granted to facilitate the
Measures Awards vest based on financial, non-financial and/or strategic recruitment of an Executive Director in unusual circumstances, or under other relevant company
performance conditions which are aligned to the Company’s strategic incentive plans.
plan (the satisfaction of which is determined by the Committee). At least
The Company will pay legal fees incurred by any new Executive Directors in respect of their
50% of the PSP will be based on financial metrics. The current measures
appointment.
are Adjusted diluted EPS (37.5%), Cumulative free cash flow (37.5%) and
ESG performance measures (25%). Any substantial or significant change If an internal candidate is promoted to the Board, legacy terms and conditions would normally be
to measures will be subject to shareholder consultation. Up to 25% of honoured, including pension entitlements and any outstanding incentive awards.
the award vests for threshold levels of performance, increasing to 100% In the event of the appointment of a new Chair or Non-executive Director, remuneration
of the award for stretching performance. arrangements will reflect the policy outlined on page 121.
The Committee sets targets each year so that they are stretching and
Executive Director service agreements and policy on Executive Directors
represent value creation for shareholders, while remaining motivational
leaving Tesco
for management.
When determining leaving arrangements for an Executive Director, the Committee takes any
Change No change from current policy.
contractual agreements into account, including the provisions of any incentive arrangements, typical
market practice and the performance and conduct of the individual.
Shareholding requirements The following table summarises Tesco’s policy in relation to Executive Director service agreements
and payments in the event of loss of office:
Guidelines Tesco operates shareholding guidelines of 400% of base salary for the
Group Chief Executive and 300% for the Chief Financial Officer. Executive
Directors are required to retain all shares that vest to them, net of any Provision Current service agreements
tax liability, whether from the annual bonus, PSP or buyout, until the
Notice period Up to 12 months’ notice by the Company and by the Executive Director. For
relevant shareholding guideline is satisfied. The Committee may waive this
new appointments, the Committee reserves the right to vary this period to
requirement under certain exceptional personal circumstances.
24 months for the initial period of appointment, and for the notice period to
Executive Directors are required to hold 100% of the lower of their then revert to up to 12 months after the initial 12 months of employment.
shareholding requirement or their actual shareholding at the date of their
departure from the Company for two years. They must hold shares covered Expiry date Ken Murphy and Imran Nawaz entered into service agreements with
by the post-cessation shareholding requirement in a corporate sponsored Tesco PLC on 1 October 2019 and 6 October 2020, respectively. These are
nominee account. rolling service agreements with no fixed expiry date. The notice period on
termination by the Company or the Executive Director is 12 months.
Change No change from current policy.
Termination payments If the Company terminates an Executive Director’s agreement without full
(do not apply if notice notice or it is terminated by an Executive Director in response to a serious
Remuneration policy for new hires is provided, as per the contractual breach by the Company, then the Executive Director has the
service agreement, right to a termination payment that reflects the unexpired term of the
When hiring a new Executive Director, the Committee would generally seek to align their remuneration
or for termination by notice.
package with the remuneration policy outlined in this section. The Committee will set base salary
taking into account all relevant factors including: reason of resignation Any termination payment in lieu of notice will be based on base salary and
or unacceptable benefits only, plus any statutory rights. Termination payments will normally
– the experience and calibre of the candidate; performance or be subject to mitigation and paid in instalments. The Company’s obligation
– the candidate’s current reward opportunity; and conduct) to continue making phased termination payments will cease when the
– the jurisdiction from which the candidate was recruited. Executive Director commences alternative employment.
Incentive opportunity will be in line with the policy maximums (i.e. a total maximum incentive
opportunity of 600% of base salary).
The Committee may make additional awards when appointing an Executive Director to buy out any
remuneration terms forfeited on leaving a previous employer. The Committee will look to do so on
a like-for-like basis with the awards forfeited, taking account of relevant factors including any
performance conditions attached to these awards, the form in which they were granted (e.g. cash
or shares) and the time over which they would have vested.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 122 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 120.
Corporate governance report continued
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Other vesting circumstances
Provision Current service agreements
Awards may also vest early to the extent determined by the Committee if:
Other information The Committee may require an Executive Director to work during their
notice period, or may choose to place them on garden leave. The Committee – a participant is transferred to another country, making them suffer a tax disadvantage or become
may determine that an Executive Director may remain eligible to receive a subject to restrictions on their award; or
pro-rata bonus for the financial year in respect of the period they worked, – in the event of a takeover, winding-up or other corporate event affecting the Company, which may
taking into account performance achieved, if they leave as a good leaver affect the value of share awards (such as a demerger or dividend in specie).
(as defined in the leaver provisions for share plans, below).
The Committee will determine the number of shares under an award that vest in these circumstances.
The Committee will take into account time in active employment and
In the case of PSP awards, the Committee will consider performance and the time elapsed since grant
performance to determine the level of bonus.
when determining the level of vesting. Awards will vest in full in the case of deferred annual bonus
The Committee may make payments in connection with an existing or
share awards.
threatened legal obligation or in respect of any claim related to the cessation
of employment. This includes fees for outplacement assistance, legal and/or Information supporting the policy table
professional advice.
Dividend equivalents
The Company may reimburse the Executive Director for reasonable Dividend equivalents are payable on deferred annual bonus and PSP awards that vest, usually in the
legal expenses if they leave by mutual consent. Directors’ and Officers’
form of additional shares.
liability insurance for a specified period following the Executive Director’s
termination date may be provided. Where an Executive Director has been Discretion in relation to incentive plans
recruited from overseas, the Company may pay for repatriation. The Committee retains discretion regarding the annual bonus and PSP plans. This relates to:
– the timing, size and type of awards and holding periods, subject to policy maximums, and the annual
Shareholders can view service agreements of the Executive Directors at the Company’s setting of targets;
registered office. – circumstances where qualitative performance measures are used, when performance against those
measures is not in line with the Group’s overall financial or strategic performance over the
Share plan rules – leaver provisions
performance period;
The relevant share plan rules govern the treatment of outstanding share awards when an Executive – the adjustment of targets and measures if events occur which cause the Committee to determine it
Director leaves. The following table summarises leaver provisions under the executive share plans is appropriate to do so. The Committee also retains the right to change performance measures and
for good leavers. All awards will normally lapse except for good leavers. In specific circumstances, the weighting of measures, in circumstances including:
however, the Committee may exercise its discretion to modify the policy outlined to the extent that
the rules of the share plan allow this. The Committee will not exercise discretion to allow awards to – following feedback from regulators, shareholders and/or other stakeholders; and
vest where the participant is dismissed for gross misconduct. Where an Executive Director leaves – amending the plan rules in accordance with their terms and/or amending the basis of operation
as a result of summary dismissal, they will forfeit outstanding share incentive awards. (including but not limited to the approach in respect of dividend equivalents);
Good leavers are those who have left the Company due to injury, ill-health or disability, death, – the exercise of discretion in accordance with the rules, including in relation to whether or not malus
redundancy, retirement, the entity which employs them ceasing to be part of the Group, taking into or clawback provisions would apply, in connection with recruitment, or terminations of employment,
account the circumstances of the departure and performance, or any other reason determined by or corporate events affecting the Company; and
the Committee. – adjustments required in certain circumstances (e.g. rights issues, corporate restructuring events,
special dividends and other corporate actions).
Deferred bonus plan Unvested awards vest at cessation. The Committee has discretion to defer The Committee will disclose any exercise of discretion in accordance with regulatory requirements.
awards vesting to the normal vesting date.
Malus and clawback provisions
Long term incentive Unvested awards normally vest on the normal date, pro-rated for time and The Committee has the discretion to scale back deferred share awards and PSP awards prior to
plan awards take into account performance achieved. In the event of retirement, the the satisfaction of such awards if:
Committee has the right to lapse awards granted since February 2019 if
– results are materially misstated;
the former Executive Director is employed in a substantive role prior to the
– the participant has contributed to serious reputational damage to the Company or one of its
vesting of the award. On vesting, shares will be subject to a two-year holding
business units;
period. Shares in the holding period will continue to be held until the end of
– the participant’s conduct has amounted to serious misconduct, fraud, dishonesty, a breach of the
the two-year holding period. In the event of death, however, shares will be
released to the estate. Code of Business Conduct or material wrongdoing;
– the determination of the vesting or value of an award has been affected by an underlying incorrect
All–employee Leaver provisions under all-employee share plans are determined in figure in the financial statements; or
share plans accordance with HMRC-approved provisions. – an error or miscalculation in determining the vesting or value of an award is identified.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 123 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 121.
Corporate governance report continued
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Under malus, deferred share awards and unvested PSP awards can be reduced (including down to The Committee may amend performance targets in accordance with the terms of an award or if a
zero) or be made subject to additional conditions. Clawback allows for the repayment of cash bonuses transaction or event occurs which causes the Committee to decide (taking into account the interests
previously paid up for a period of three years and PSP awards for a period of two years after the of shareholders) that an amended performance condition would be more appropriate, would
vesting date. The malus and clawback periods are purposefully designed to align with respective continue to achieve the original purpose and would be no less challenging to achieve.
deferral, vesting and holding periods. These are considered appropriate timeframes to review
Payments outside of the policy
whether any trigger events have occurred under the malus and clawback provisions.
The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of
There are robust mechanisms in place to ensure that these malus and clawback provisions are office (including exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such payments)
enforceable. notwithstanding that they are not in line with the proposed remuneration policy set out in this report,
where the terms of the payment were agreed (i) before the policy came into effect, or (ii) at a time
Timing of target disclosure
when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee,
Targets for the PSP are disclosed on or before the grant date of the award. Targets and performance
the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company. For
against these for the annual bonus are disclosed in the year following the start of the performance
these purposes, ‘payments’ includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration, and
period.
an award in shares is ‘agreed’ at the time the award is granted.
Terms of share awards
External appointments
The Committee may amend the terms of awards or the rules of share plans within the scope defined
Executive Directors are permitted to hold one approved non-executive directorship of another
in the rules of the plans.
company and to retain the fees earned from such an appointment.
For share awards, the number of shares subject to an award may be adjusted in the event of a
variation of the Company’s share capital or a demerger, delisting, special dividend, rights issue or
other event, which may, in the Committee’s opinion affect the current or future value of awards.
Remuneration policy for Non-executive Directors
Approach to setting fees Basis of fees Other items
– Fees for the Non-executive Chair and Non-executive Directors are set – Our Non-executive Director fees policy is to pay: – The Non-executive Directors are not entitled to participate in the
at an appropriate level to recruit and retain Directors of a sufficient – a basic fee for membership of the Board; annual bonus, PSP or Long Term Incentive Plan.
calibre to guide and influence Board-level decision making without – an additional fee for the Chair of a Committee and the Senior – The Non-executive Directors have the benefit of Directors’ and
paying more than is necessary. Independent Director to take into account the additional Officers’ liability insurance, provision of an indemnity and colleague
– Fees are set taking into account the following factors: responsibilities and time commitment of the role; discount on the same basis as colleagues. The Board may introduce
– the time commitment required to fulfil the role; and – an additional fee for membership of a Committee to take into additional benefits for Non-executive Directors if it is considered
– typical practice at other companies of a similar size and complexity account the additional responsibilities and time commitment appropriate to do so.
to Tesco. of the role; and – The Non-executive Chair may have the benefit of a company car and
– Non-executive Directors’ fees are set by the Board and the Chair’s fee – additional fees to reflect additional Board or Committee driver, home security, colleague discount and family healthcare. The
is set by the Committee (the Chair does not take part in any discussion responsibilities as appropriate. Committee may introduce additional benefits for the Non-executive
about their fees). – The Non-executive Chair receives an all-inclusive fee for the role. Chair if it is considered appropriate to do so.
– Fees are reviewed by the Board and the Committee at appropriate – Where significant travel is required to attend Board meetings, – The Company may reimburse the Non-executive Chair and Non-
intervals. additional fees may be paid to reflect this additional time executive Directors for reasonable expenses in connection with the
– Fees paid to the Non-executive Chair and Non-executive Directors commitment. performance of their duties and may settle any tax incurred in relation
may not exceed the aggregate limit set out in the Company’s Articles to these.
of Association. – The Company will pay reasonable legal fees for advice in relation to
terms of engagement.
– If a Non-executive Director is based overseas, then the Company
would meet travel and accommodation expenditure as required to
fulfil non-executive duties and may settle any tax incurred in relation
to these.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 124 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 122.
Corporate governance report continued
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Non-executive Director letters of appointment
Illustrative total remuneration scenarios
Non-executive Directors have letters of appointment setting out their duties and the time
commitment expected. Appointments are for an initial period of three years after which they are Fixed pay Annual bonus Long term incentive Share price increase
reviewed. Details of Non-executive Directors’ dates of appointments and length of service can be Ken Murphy Imran Nawaz
found on page 113. In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Non-executive Directors Group Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer
submit themselves for re-election by shareholders every year at the annual general meeting. All
Non-executive Directors’ appointments can be terminated by either party without notice. Non-
£11.59m £6.50m
executive Directors have no entitlement to compensation on termination. Shareholders can view
18% 18%
Non-executive Directors’ letters of appointment at the Company’s registered office.
Scenarios for future total remuneration
The charts to the right provide an illustration of what could be received by each Executive Director
under the new remuneration policy in 2025/26. These charts are illustrative as the actual value will
depend on business performance and share price performance. The maximum performance also £9.53m £5.35m
includes an additional bar which shows the impact of a 50% share price growth on the PSP outcome
43% 35% 43% 35%
over the relevant performance period, to show how the package value is aligned to shareholders.
Remuneration assumptions
Minimum Fixed pay only – base salary, benefits and pension.
On target Includes fixed pay, 50% of the maximum annual bonus (equal to 125% of
salary for the CEO and CFO) and 62.5% vesting of the PSP (equal to 172% of
salary for the CEO and CFO).
Maximum Includes fixed pay, maximum annual bonus payout (equal to 250% of salary
for the CEO and CFO) and 100% vesting of the PSP (equal to 275% of salary £6.13m £3.45m
for the CEO and CFO). 42% 41%
Maximum with share All elements the same as the maximum but assumes a 50% increase in
price increase share price. 39% 32% 39% 32%
30% 30%
£1.69m £0.98m
100% 28% 18% 15% 100% 29% 18% 15%
Minimum On target Maximum Maximum Minimum On target Maximum Maximum
(with 50% (with 50%
share price share price
growth) growth)
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 125 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 123.
Statement of Directors’
responsibilities.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the In preparing the Group financial statements, – The financial statements, prepared in
annual report and the financial statements in International Accounting Standard 1 requires accordance with the relevant financial Did you know:
accordance with applicable law and regulations. that Directors: reporting framework, give a true and fair view
of the assets, liabilities, financial position and
Company law requires the Directors to prepare – Properly select and apply accounting policies;
profit or loss of the Company and the The Directors are
financial statements for each financial year. – Present information, including accounting
undertakings included in the consolidation
Under that law, the Directors are required to policies, in a manner that provides relevant, responsible for
taken as a whole;
prepare the Group financial statements in reliable, comparable and understandable
accordance with UK-adopted international information; – The Strategic report includes a fair review of the preparing the annual
development and performance of the business
accounting standards and applicable UK law. – Provide additional disclosures when
and the position of the Company and the report and the
The financial statements also comply with compliance with the specific requirements
undertakings included in the consolidation
International Financial Reporting Standards in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to financial statements
taken as a whole, together with a description
(IFRSs) as issued by the IASB. The Directors have understand the impact of particular
of the principal risks and uncertainties that in accordance with
also chosen to prepare the Parent Company transactions, other events and conditions on
they face; and
financial statements in accordance with United the entity’s financial position and financial – The Annual Report and Financial Statements applicable law and
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting performance; and
2025, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and
Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards – Make an assessment of the Company’s ability regulations.
understandable and provide the information
and applicable law), including Financial Reporting to continue as a going concern.
necessary for shareholders to assess the
Standard (FRS) 101 Reduced Disclosure
The Directors are responsible for keeping Company’s position and performance,
Framework. Under company law, the Directors
adequate accounting records that are sufficient business model and strategy.
must not approve the financial statements
to show and explain the Company’s transactions
unless they are satisfied that they give a true and By order of the Board,
and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any
fair view of the state of affairs of the Company
time the financial position of the Company,
and of the profit or loss of the Company for
and enable them to ensure that the financial
that period.
statements comply with the Companies Act
In preparing the Parent Company financial 2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding Ken Murphy
statements, the Directors are required to: the assets of the Company and hence for taking Group C hief Executive
reasonable steps for the prevention and 9 April 2025
– Select suitable accounting policies and then
detection of fraud and other irregularities. The
apply them consistently;
Directors are responsible for the maintenance
– Make judgements and accounting estimates
and integrity of the corporate and financial
that are reasonable and prudent;
information included on the Company’s website.
– State whether applicable UK Accounting
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation
Standards have been followed, subject to any
and dissemination of financial statements may
material departures disclosed and explained
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. Each
in the financial statements; and
of the serving Directors, whose names and
– Prepare the financial statements on the going
functions are set out on pages 56 to 58,
concern basis unless it is inappropriate to
confirms that, to the best of their knowledge:
presume that the Company will continue in
business.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 126 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 124.
Financial statements
Independent auditor’s report to the members of Tesco PLC
Report on the audit of
the financial statements.
1. Opinion We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis
for our opinion.
In our opinion: 3. Summary of our audit approach
– the financial statements of Tesco PLC (the Parent Company) and its subsidiaries (the Group) give Key audit matters
a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs as at The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were:
22 February 2025 and of the Group’s profit for the 52 week period then ended; – store impairment review;
– the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom – recognition of commercial income;
adopted international accounting standards; – pension valuation; and
– the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with – retail technology environment.
United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including Financial Reporting Standard
101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’; and
Within this report, key audit matters are identified as follows:
– the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the
Companies Act 2006. Increased level Similar level Decreased level
Newly identified
of risk of risk of risk
We have audited the financial statements which comprise:
– the Group income statement; Materiality
– the Group statement of comprehensive income/(loss); The materiality that we used for the Group financial statements was £125m (2023/24: £115m) which
– the Group and Parent Company balance sheets; was determined on the basis of 4.67% (2023/24: 4.92%) of total adjusted profit before tax, from both
– the Group and Parent Company statements of changes in equity; continuing and discontinued operations, (including net pension finance income/(cost)) as described
– the Group cash flow statement; and further on page 129.
– the related Notes 1 to 34 of the Group financial statements and Notes 1 to 16 of the Parent Scoping
Company financial statements. Our scoping provides audit coverage of 97% (2023/24: 97%) of revenue from continuing operations, 94%
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial (2023/24: 92%) of profit before tax from continuing operations and 94% (2023/24: 92%) of total assets.
statements is applicable law and United Kingdom adopted international accounting standards. The In relation to discontinued operations we performed an audit of the entire financial information
financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company covering 100% of revenue and operating profit.
financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101
‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’ (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice). Significant changes in our approach
Due to the completion of the disposal of the Group’s Banking operations during the year, our 2024/25
2. Basis for opinion report no longer includes the following key audit matters:
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and – Tesco Bank loan impairment; and
applicable law. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditor’s – Disposal of Banking operations.
responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
Following the completion of the disposal of the Banking operations, the inherent risks and significant
We are independent of the Group and the Parent Company in accordance with the ethical judgements related to both Tesco Bank loan impairment and the disposal itself are no longer present
requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the and there were no additional significant judgements or considerations on the completion of the
Financial Reporting Council’s (the ‘FRC’s’) Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, disposal.
and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. The
non-audit services provided to the Group and Parent Company for the year are disclosed in Note 4 There are no other significant changes in our approach in comparison to the prior year.
(Operating expenses) to the financial statements. We confirm that we have not provided any non-audit
services prohibited by the FRC’s Ethical Standard to the Group or the Parent Company.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 127 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 125.
Financial statements continued
Independent auditor’s report to the members of Tesco PLC continued
4. Conclusions relating to going concern 5. Key audit matters
In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the Directors’ use of the going concern Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in
basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate. our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed
risks of material misstatement (whether or not due to fraud) that we identified. These matters
Our evaluation of the Directors’ assessment of the Group’s and Parent Company’s ability to continue
included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources
to adopt the going concern basis of accounting included:
in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
– obtaining confirmation for the financing facilities including nature of facilities, repayment terms and
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and
any covenants to assess that these facilities remain available at year end;
in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
– assessing the reasonableness of the assumptions used in the Group’s funding plan approved by
the Board;
– testing the mechanical accuracy used to prepare the forecasts including obtaining an understanding
5.1. Store impairment review
of relevant controls over the Group’s model;
– reviewing the liquidity forecast and undertaking sensitivities to assess whether there is sufficient
headroom; Key audit matter description
– challenging the assumptions used within the Group’s going concern model by obtaining third-party As described in Note 1 (Accounting policies, judgements and estimates), Note 12 (Property, plant and
equipment) and Note 13 (Leases) of the financial statements, the Group held £17,262m (2023/24:
and market data and evaluating any differences between this data and the judgement and
£17,221m) of property, plant and equipment and £5,569m of right of use assets (2023/24: £5,478m) at
assumptions used;
22 February 2025.
– evaluating the historical accuracy of forecasts prepared by the Group;
– considering the mitigating factors identified by the Group in relation to their going concern analysis; Under IAS 36 ‘Impairment of Assets’, the Group is required to complete an impairment review of its store
portfolio where there are indicators of impairment or impairment reversal. Judgement is required in
– assessing the compliance with capital and liquidity requirements for the insurance and money
identifying indicators of impairment charges or reversals and estimation is required in determining the
services (IMS) business; and
recoverable amount of the Group’s store portfolio.
– assessing the appropriateness of the Group’s disclosure concerning the going concern basis.
Where a review for impairment, or reversal of impairment, is conducted, the recoverable amount is
Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to determined based on the higher of ‘value in use’ or ‘fair value less costs of disposal’.
events or conditions that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the Group’s and
Value in use has been calculated using probability-weighted cash flows reflecting the Group’s best
Parent Company’s ability to continue as a going concern for a period of at least 12 months from when estimate of the impact of the economic environment and climate change on the future trading
the financial statements are authorised for issue. performance of the Group. Further details of the probability-weighted cash flows are set out in Note 15
(Impairment of non-current assets) of the financial statements.
In relation to the reporting on how the Group has applied the UK Corporate Governance Code, we
have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to the Directors’ statement in the The Group estimates the fair value less costs of disposal of the stores with the assistance of independent
financial statements about whether the Directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going professional valuers. External valuations are obtained for a sample of stores, the results of which are
concern basis of accounting. then used by the Group’s in-house experts to determine the fair value of the other properties. Further
details of the basis for the valuation are set out in Note 15.
Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the Directors with respect to going concern are
The key audit matter relates specifically to the UK trading store portfolio which represents 90% of the
described in the relevant sections of this report.
Group’s property, plant and equipment and 85% of the Group’s right of use asset balances.
In making their assessment of value in use and fair value less costs of disposal, the Group has considered
the impact of the macroeconomic trading environment (including the impact of Government policies,
changes to prices of goods for resale and fluctuations in interest rates and inflation) on forecast cash
flows and property fair values where conditions existed at the balance sheet date.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 128 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 126.
Financial statements continued
Independent auditor’s report to the members of Tesco PLC continued
5.1. Store impairment review continued 5.1. Store impairment review continued
The Group’s impairment review is sensitive to changes in the key assumptions as set out in Note 15. – performing testing on all the data inputs and model outputs, along with stand-back assessments
Significant judgement is required to forecast store cash flows which are derived from the Board- to identify unusual trends and understand the factors driving the movement or any indicators of
approved Long Term Plan (LTP) and also in relation to capital and restructuring adjustments made to the management bias;
LTP cash flows so that the impairment model cash flows comply with IAS 36. In particular, the impairment – assessing the methodology applied in determining the value in use compared with the requirements of
model is sensitive to changes to the Year 3 cash flow as this cash flow is discounted into the long term in IAS 36, including challenging the appropriateness of excluding certain cash flows contained within the
the value in use calculation. LTP which were determined as not permissible under IAS 36;
Key areas of judgement in the cash flow forecasts include the ability of the Group to achieve their – assessing and challenging the reasonableness and weighting of probability scenarios applied to adjust
forecasts in light of changing consumer patterns, the ongoing competitive retail environment and the the Group’s cash flows; and
Group’s ability to realise forecast cost savings. – assessing the mechanical accuracy and integrity of the value in use model prepared by the Group,
with the assistance of our specialist modelling team.
Other areas of key estimation in the store impairment review are as follows:
In relation to the Group’s stores where their value is supported by fair value less costs of disposal
– the probability applied to each cash flow scenario in calculating the probability-weighted cash flows; (rather than value in use), our procedures included challenging the assumptions used by the Group in
– the discount rate and long-term growth rate used to determine value in use from the probability- determining the fair market value, including those completed by external valuers and assessing whether
weighted cash flows; and appropriate valuation methodologies have been applied. Where stores are supported by their fair values
– the fair value of properties supporting the carrying value of store assets, in particular in response to less costs of disposal but the Group plan to continue to trade in the store, we have challenged the Group
the changing retail and broader property landscape. as to why the fair value is appropriate in these circumstances. With the involvement of property valuation
The LTP is prepared on a top-down basis and not at an individual store level. The Group perform an specialists we have evaluated the fair value less cost of disposal and, as part of our work performed, we
exercise to allocate forecast performance across individual stores within the portfolio ensuring cash have evaluated the competence, capability and objectivity of the Group’s valuers.
flows derived from the LTP are in accordance with IAS 36. This increases the complexity and level of We also evaluated whether there was appropriate disclosure regarding sensitivities associated with the
judgement within the impairment model. Group’s impairment review.
As a result of the Group’s store impairment review completed during the year, a net impairment loss
of £298m (2023/24: impairment reversal of £28m) was recognised. This includes an impairment charge Key observations
of £671m (2023/24: £572m) and an impairment reversal of £373m (2023/24: £600m). The sensitivities Based on our audit procedures we are satisfied that the assumptions in the impairment models are
associated with the Group’s impairment review are presented within Note 15 to the financial statements. within an acceptable range, and that the estimate of the Group’s net impairment loss is reasonable.
We also consider the disclosures, including the sensitivity disclosure, in Note 15 to be appropriate.
The Audit Committee’s discussion of this key audit matter is set out on page 82.
How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter
Our audit procedures included obtaining an understanding of the relevant controls around the
impairment review process, including the budget and forecast setting processes which support the
cash flows used in the impairment model.
Our procedures in relation to the Group’s value in use assessment included:
– challenging the key assumptions utilised in the cash flow forecasts with reference to historical trading
performance, changes to prices of goods for resale, the wider economic environment (including
possible macroeconomic impacts of Government policies, fluctuations in interest rates and inflation),
anticipated changes in consumer behaviour, competitor actions, our understanding of the Group’s
strategic initiatives, climate change considerations and our wider industry knowledge;
– reviewing the accuracy of past forecasts of growth rates and future cash flows to assess the level of
accuracy of the forecasting process;
– with the involvement of valuation specialists evaluating the Group’s inputs to, and the appropriateness
of, its discount rate and the validity of its long-term growth rate;
– assessing and challenging the adequacy of the Group’s sensitivity analysis in relation to key assumptions
that may lead to a significant further impairment charge or reversal. This includes consideration of
forecast cash flows (including probability weighted cashflows), discount rates and property fair values,
in light of ongoing market volatility due to cost pressures, changing consumer behaviours, fluctuations
in inflation and competitor activities;
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 129 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 127.
Financial statements continued
Independent auditor’s report to the members of Tesco PLC continued
5.2. Recognition of commercial income 5.2. Recognition of commercial income continued
Key audit matter description – testing commercial income balances included within inventories and trade and other receivables,
As described in Note 1 (Accounting policies, judgements and estimates) and Note 21 (Commercial or netted against trade and other payables (as set out in Note 21) via balance sheet reconciliation
income) of the financial statements, the Group has agreements with suppliers whereby volume-related procedures; and
allowances, promotional and marketing allowances and various other fees and discounts are received in – assessing the appropriateness of the disclosures made in relation to commercial income in the Group’s
connection with the purchase of goods for resale from those suppliers. financial statements.
As such, the Group recognises a reduction in cost of sales as a result of amounts received from those Key observations
suppliers. Commercial income should only be recognised as income within the income statement when Based on our audit procedures we are satisfied that the recognition of commercial income is reasonable.
the performance conditions associated with it have been met, for example where the underlying product We consider the disclosure given in the financial statements around commercial income provides an
promotions have gone live in stores. appropriate understanding of the types of rebate income received and the impact on the Group’s
The variety and number of the buying arrangements with suppliers means there is complexity in balance sheet.
determining if the performance obligations associated with the income have been satisfied, giving rise
to a requirement for management judgement. As such we have identified this as a key audit matter and
considered that there was a potential for fraud pinpointed to the possible manipulation of the income
for promotional space deal types within the Tesco UK retail business.
The Audit Committee’s discussion of this key audit matter is set out on page 83.
How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter
Our audit procedures included obtaining an understanding of relevant controls that the Group has
established in relation to commercial income recognition.
In addition, our procedures included performing the following:
– using data analytics to identify commercial income deals with particular characteristics, such as those
related to promotional space, and carried out further procedures on these, including arranging one on
one meetings with individual Tesco buyers and third party supplier representatives;
– considering whether amounts recognised were accurate and recorded in the correct period by
circularising a sample of suppliers to determine whether the arrangements recorded were in accordance
with the terms agreed in advance with the suppliers with regard to the nature, timing and amount
of the promotions and deals. We evaluated all supplier confirmation responses and investigated all
exceptions reported to us, if any, to determine the effect on reported commercial income or on our
confirmation sampling plan. We obtained a 100% response rate from the suppliers in our sample, and
therefore we did not need to consider alternative procedures;
– evaluating the year-end accrual for promotional deals to assess whether performance obligations have
been fulfilled where they have been invoiced subsequent to year end;
– holding discussions with certain suppliers and members of the Group’s buying personnel in order to:
further understand relevant arrangements; gain further insights on the impact of economic trends
on specific product categories and associated cost prices; discussing the IT applications used to
administer and process commercial income deals; and identifying if there are any disputes or other
issues that we should be aware of for further investigation;
– testing the completeness of commercial income by evaluating the Group’s review and conclusions
related to any commercial income deals that were unrecorded and performing analytical procedures
to identify deals where performance obligations have been fulfilled but invoicing could not occur due to
pending final administrative procedures;
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 130 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 128.
Financial statements continued
Independent auditor’s report to the members of Tesco PLC continued
5.3. Pension valuation 5.4. Retail technology environment
Key audit matter description Key audit matter description
As described in Note 1 (Accounting policies, judgements and estimates) and Note 29 (Post-employment The Group’s retail technology environment is complex and a significant element of its financial processes
benefits) of the financial statements, the Group has a defined benefit pension plan in the UK retail and business operations are dependent on automated processes and controls.
business. At 22 February 2025, the Group recorded a net retirement benefit deficit before deferred In the current and previous years, we have reported certain IT control deficiencies within the retail IT
tax of £251m (2023/24: £635m), comprising plan assets of £11,715m (2023/24: £12,156m) and plan systems which could have an adverse impact on the Group’s controls and financial reporting systems.
liabilities of £11,963m (2023/24: £12,787m). The net retirement deficit of £251m (2023/24: £635m) before
deferred tax comprises schemes in surplus of £56m (2023/24: £22m) and schemes in deficit of £307m The Group has continued to implement its multi-year remediation plan on control deficiencies related
(2023/24: £657m). to Application User Access Management and Privileged Access Management. IT controls remediation
is a complex project which includes the remediation of IT deficiencies across a range of internally and
The valuation of the Group’s pension obligations is sensitive to changes in key assumptions and is externally hosted systems.
dependent on market conditions. The key audit matter specifically relates to the key financial and
demographic assumptions linked to the valuation of the UK retail pension plan obligations: discount rate, Areas of the Group’s remediation programme to which the key audit matter has been pinpointed include:
inflation expectations, and mortality assumptions. The setting of these assumptions is complex and – appropriateness of remediated access controls across in-scope applications and their supporting
requires the exercise of significant management judgement with the support of the Group’s actuaries. infrastructure; and
– whether the remediated controls address previously identified deficiencies.
The Audit Committee’s discussion of this key audit matter is set out on page 82.
The Audit Committee’s discussion of this key audit matter is set out on page 84.
How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter
Our audit procedures included obtaining an understanding of relevant controls in relation to the pension How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter
obligation valuation process. Consistent with previous years, we did not plan to take a control-reliant audit approach in the retail
In addition, we involved our actuarial specialists to assess the key actuarial assumptions used, both business for the majority of systems due to the previously identified deficiencies in the IT environment
financial and demographic, and considered the methodology utilised to derive these assumptions. and the level of integration and inter-dependencies across the systems.
In order to assess and challenge the reasonableness of the Group’s discount rate, we independently During the year, we obtained an understanding of relevant controls over the information systems that
calculated an appropriate range from available market data and compared this to the Group’s rate. are important to financial reporting, including the changes made as part of the Group’s IT remediation
Working with our actuarial specialists, we benchmarked and challenged assumptions used by the Group in programme. We evaluated the design and implementation of controls which the Group has remediated
determining the value of pension liabilities, particularly focusing on the discount rate, inflation and mortality and tested operating effectiveness on certain systems.
assumptions. This included comparing the inputs and assumptions used in determining the valuation of Certain systems are further progressed along the remediation path, with IT controls reliance achieved over
the UK retail pension plan to those used in comparable pension plans and our independently assessed a subset of systems this year, allowing us to rely on a number of automated controls within these systems.
benchmarks. As part of our procedures, we considered the incorporation of, and weighting factors applied Consistent with the prior year, we also extended the scope of our substantive audit procedures in response
to, the Continuous Mortality Investigation (CMI) 2023 mortality tables which include the updated 2023 to the deficiencies which affected the applications and databases within the scope of our audit.
actual mortality experience, with reference to advice the Group has received from its actuaries.
Additionally, we have considered the competence, capability and objectivity of the actuaries engaged Key observations
by the Group to perform valuations of the relevant plans. The additional substantive audit procedures performed in order to mitigate the risk of material
misstatement due to deficiencies in the IT systems within the scope of our audit were completed
Key observations satisfactorily.
Based on our audit procedures we are satisfied that the overall methodology is appropriate, and the key Based on the current work programme, the Group intend to have the majority of IT remediation
assumptions applied in relation to determining the pension valuation are reasonable. completed within 2025/26. Our audit plan includes an ongoing programme to test the Group’s
remediated IT controls relevant to the audit once this has been completed by the Group. As such,
we consider the level of risk associated with this key audit matter to have remained consistent with
the prior year until these actions are further progressed.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 131 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 129.
Financial statements continued
Independent auditor’s report to the members of Tesco PLC continued
6. Our application of materiality 6.2. Performance materiality
We set performance materiality at a level lower than materiality to reduce the probability that, in
6.1. Materiality
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable aggregate, uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceed the materiality for the financial
that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced. We use statements as a whole.
materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole Group financial statements Parent Company financial statements
as follows: Performance 65% (2023/24: 65%) of Group materiality 65% (2023/24: 65%) of Parent
materiality Company materiality
Group financial statements Parent Company financial statements
Basis and As we continue to be unable to rely on the majority of internal controls in the
Materiality £125m (2023/24: £115m) £96m (2023/24: £86.25m) rationale for retail business due to the previously identified deficiencies in the IT environment,
Basis for 4.67% (2023/24: 4.92%) of total adjusted profit Materiality represents determining consistent with previous years, we have used a lower percentage of materiality to
determining before tax, from both continuing and discontinued less than 1% of net assets performance determine our performance materiality for 2024/25. In determining our performance
materiality operations, (including net pension finance income/ (2023/24: less than 1%). materiality materiality, we have also considered the nature, quantum and volume of corrected
(cost)) of £2,678m (2023/24: £2,337m). and uncorrected misstatements in prior periods, including prior period errors, and
our expectation that misstatements from prior periods would not likely recur in the
Rationale We have determined materiality based on 4.67% As this is the Parent Company current period.
for the of total adjusted profit before tax, from both of the Group, it does not
benchmark continuing and discontinued operations, (including generate significant revenues
applied net pension finance income/(cost)). Adjusting other than investment returns, 6.3. Error reporting threshold
items are defined in Note 1 and include net but incurs costs. We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in
pension finance income/(cost). For the purpose Net assets are of most excess of £6.25m (2023/24: £5.75m), as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view,
of our materiality determination we have excluded relevance to users of the warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure
net pension finance income/(cost) from adjusting financial statements. matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
items and therefore increased/(reduced) adjusted
profit before tax accordingly. Our determined 7. An overview of the scope of our audit
materiality represents 0.18% (2023/24: 0.17%) of 7.1. Identification and scoping of components
the Group’s revenue from continuing operations Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment,
and 1.1% (2023/24: 1.0%) of net assets.
including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Refer to Note 5 (Adjusting items) for further details The Group operates through over 600 legal entities and has subsidiary grocery retail operations in five
of adjusting items and the Group’s reconciliation countries, together with interests in a number of other businesses both in the UK and internationally.
of this alternative performance measure to the
Group’s statutory measure. The Group’s accounting process is structured around business units managed by local finance
functions and further supported by business service centres in Bengaluru, India and Budapest,
Hungary which provide accounting and administrative support for the Group’s core retail operations.
Each local finance function reports through to the central Group finance function based at the
Group’s head office.
Adjusted profit We performed a detailed scoping exercise of each individual account balance, class of transaction
before tax from and disclosure at a Group level to determine the individual legal entities’ contribution to each
Group materiality £125m
continuing and significant account in the Group financial statements. This has resulted in certain individual legal
discontinued entities being subject to audit procedures through either an audit of the entire financial information,
operations audit procedures on specified account balances or being subject to specified procedures (“the
(including net components subject to audit procedures”).
pension finance
The work performed on the components subject to audit procedures (excluding the Parent Company)
income/(cost)) Component performance was completed to component performance materiality levels between £23.4m and £62.4m (2023/24:
£2,678m materiality range
£23.4m to £62.4m £11m and £56m).
Audit Committee reporting
threshold £6.25m
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 132 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 130.
Financial statements continued
Independent auditor’s report to the members of Tesco PLC continued
Based on our assessment, our audit scope focuses on component entities within five retail locations
Total assets
(UK, Republic of Ireland, Czech Republic, Hungary and Slovakia), Booker and certain material balances
within Tesco Personal Finance and Tesco Underwriting. For entities and account balances not subject
to audit procedures we performed analytical review procedures to confirm our conclusion that there
was no significant risk of material misstatement in the residual population. The components which
were subject to audit procedures in the current year represent 97% (2023/24: 97%) of revenue from
continuing operations, 94% (2023/24: 92%) of profit before tax from continuing operations and 94%
Audit of the entire financial information 78%
(2023/24: 92%) of total assets. In relation to discontinued operations we performed an audit of the
Specified audit procedures 16%
entire financial information covering 100% of revenue and operating profit.
Review at group level 6%
As each of the local finance functions maintains separate financial records, we engaged component
auditors from the Deloitte member firms in the UK, Republic of Ireland and Central Europe to perform
procedures at all the wholly-owned components under our direction and supervision. This approach
also allowed us to engage local auditors who have appropriate knowledge of local regulations to
perform the audit work, under a common Deloitte audit approach.
The components subject to audit procedures contribute the proportions of Group totals shown below. At the Group level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to
confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated
Revenue from continuing operations financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit procedures. At the Group level
we also performed audit procedures on centrally held balances including treasury, post-employment
benefit obligations, head office costs and litigation and claims.
The components that contribute the largest proportion of the significant accounts of the Group are
within its retail business in the UK. As such, there is extensive interaction between the Group and the
UK audit team to allow appropriate level of direction, supervision and review in this audit work. During
Audit of the entire financial information 96%
the course of our audit, the UK audit team visited 25 (2023/24: 27) retail stores in the UK to attend
Specified audit procedures 1%
inventory counts and to complete store control testing procedures, and 9 (2023/24: 7) distribution
Review at group level 3% centre inventory counts.
7.2. Our consideration of the control environment
In the current year our controls approach was principally designed to inform our risk assessment, to
allow us to test the operating effectiveness of certain relevant controls, to test controls that address
risks of material misstatement for which substantive procedures alone would not provide sufficient
appropriate audit evidence and to test the operating effectiveness of controls within processes
where a controls reliance approach was taken. The Group’s operations utilise a range of information
Profit before tax from continuing operations
systems which underpin the financial reporting process. These are largely consistent across the retail
business. As noted on page 128, in most cases, it is not possible to take a controls reliant audit
approach in the retail businesses due to the IT deficiencies. For the now disposed Banking operations,
and the retained IMS business, there are separate information systems where the same IT deficiencies
do not exist and therefore a controls reliant audit approach was taken across certain account
Audit of the entire financial information 94% balances.
Specified audit procedures 0% For all of the components that were subject to audit procedures, we obtained an understanding of
Review at group level 6% the relevant IT systems for the purpose of our audit work.
In previous years we reported deficiencies in certain IT controls. As described in the Audit Committee
Report on page 84, the Group has implemented a remediation plan, progress against which is
monitored. Accordingly, consistent with the prior year, we extended the scope of our substantive
audit procedures in response to the identified deficiencies.
Further details are set out in the ‘Retail technology environment’ key audit matter in section 5.4 above.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 133 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 131.
Financial statements continued
Independent auditor’s report to the members of Tesco PLC continued
7.3. Our consideration of climate-related risks 8. Other information
The Group is exposed to the impacts of climate change on its business and operations as highlighted
The other information comprises the information included in the Annual Report, other than the
in the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) report on page 36, the viability financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon. The Directors are responsible for the other
statement on page 50, the principal risks on page 40, and in Note 15 of the financial statements. The information contained within the annual report.
Group has set out their key commitments to reduce Scope 1 and 2 market based emissions by 2025,
be carbon neutral across their own operations by 2035 and achieve net zero across their value chain Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the
(Scope 3) by 2050. extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion
thereon.
We engaged with both the central finance and sustainability functions to gain an understanding of the
assessment of, and the process undertaken to both identify and quantify, the Group’s climate-related Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other
risks. We engaged our climate specialists in our assessment to consider broader industry and information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the
market-wide practice. course of the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
We completed an independent climate-based risk assessment in order to consider the potential If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to
impact of climate change on the Group’s financial statements, incorporating both business specific determine whether this gives rise to a material misstatement in the financial statements themselves.
knowledge and wider industry awareness, including the extent to which the impact has been included If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this
in the Group’s forecast financial information. We used this to assess the completeness of the Group’s other information, we are required to report that fact.
identified risks and to develop audit procedures to respond to these risks, in particular as part of our
work in relation to store impairment and long-term viability, as well as considering climate-related
risks throughout our risk assessments on each financial statement account balance. Further details of We have nothing to report in this regard.
our work in relation to store impairment are set out in the ‘Store impairment review’ key audit matter
in section 5.1 above.
9. Responsibilities of directors
In considering the disclosures presented as part of the Strategic Report, we engaged our climate
specialists to assess compliance with the TCFD requirements and the recommendations made by As explained more fully in the Directors’ responsibilities statement, the Directors are responsible for
both the Task Force and FRC as set out in their thematic reviews. We also assessed whether these the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view,
disclosures reflect our understanding of the Group’s approach to climate and did not identify any and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of
material inconsistencies as a result of these procedures. financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
7.4. Working with other auditors In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Group’s and the
The Group audit team issued detailed instructions to the component auditors and visited the Parent Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to
component auditors set out above, in addition to the Group’s business service centre in Bengaluru going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to
where the work performed was overseen by the UK audit team. We had a dedicated audit partner liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative
focused on overseeing the role of the component audit teams, so that we applied a consistent audit but to do so.
approach to the operations in the Group’s UK and international businesses. We undertook group level
10. Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements
account balance risk assessments to determine the identification of significant risks and directed and
supervised the components as required. Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report
The audit visits by the Group audit team were timed to enable us to be involved during the planning
that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee
and risk assessment process in addition to the execution of detailed audit procedures. During our
that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when
visits we attended key meetings with component management and auditors, directed and supervised
it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in
the underlying component risk assessments, which we then took ownership of at a group level, and
the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken
reviewed and challenged detailed component auditor working papers in the underlying audit files and
on the basis of these financial statements.
component reporting. In addition, we attended component audit closing calls and held regular remote
communication to interact on any related audit and accounting matters which arose. A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the
FRC’s website at: www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our auditor’s
Additionally, the component audit teams attended two all-day planning meetings in July 2024 led by
report.
the Group audit team and held prior to commencement of our detailed audit work. The purpose of
these planning meetings was to establish a good level of understanding of the Group’s businesses,
its core strategy and hold a discussion of the significant risks and workshops on our planned audit
approach. Group management also attended part of the meeting to support these planning activities.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 134 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 132.
Financial statements continued
Independent auditor’s report to the members of Tesco PLC continued
11. Extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting We also obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that the Group operates in,
irregularities, including fraud focusing on provisions of those laws and regulations that had a direct effect on the determination of
material amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. The key laws and regulations we
Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We design
considered in this context included the Group’s ongoing compliance with the GSCOP, UK Companies
procedures in line with our responsibilities, outlined above, to detect material misstatements in
Act, Listing Rules, pensions legislation and tax legislation.
respect of irregularities, including fraud. The extent to which our procedures are capable of detecting
irregularities, including fraud is detailed below. In addition, we considered provisions of other laws and regulations that do not have a direct effect on
the financial statements but compliance with which may be fundamental to the Group’s ability to
11.1. Identifying and assessing potential risks related to irregularities
operate or to avoid a material penalty. These included the Group’s requirements of the United
In identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement in respect of irregularities, including fraud
Kingdom’s PRA FCA and Solvency II regulations in relation to the now disposed Banking operations and
and non-compliance with laws and regulations, we considered the following:
the retained IMS business, employment law, health and safety and food safety laws and regulations.
– the nature of the industry and sector, control environment and business performance including the
11.2. Audit response to risks identified
design of the Group’s remuneration policies, key drivers for Directors’ remuneration, bonus levels
As a result of performing the above, we identified recognition of commercial income as a key audit
and performance targets;
matter related to the potential risk of fraud. The key audit matters section of our report explains the
– the Group’s own assessment of the risks that irregularities may occur either as a result of fraud or
matter in more detail and also describes the specific procedures we performed in response to the
error;
key audit matter.
– the results of our enquiries of management, the internal audit function, the Directors, the Group’s
Security function and the Group’s Compliance Officer, the Group’s General Counsel and the Audit In addition to the above, our procedures to respond to risks identified included the following:
Committee about their own identification and assessment of the risks of irregularities, including
– reviewing the financial statement disclosures and testing to supporting documentation to assess
those that are specific to the sector;
compliance with provisions of relevant laws and regulations described as having a direct effect on
– any matters we identified having obtained and reviewed the Group’s documentation of their policies
the financial statements;
and procedures relating to:
– enquiring of management, the Audit Committee and in-house and external legal counsel concerning
– identifying, evaluating and complying with laws and regulations and whether they were aware of
actual and potential litigation and claims;
any instances of non-compliance;
– performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected relationships that may
– detecting and responding to the risks of fraud and whether they have knowledge of any actual,
indicate risks of material misstatement due to fraud;
suspected or alleged fraud;
– reading minutes of meetings of those charged with governance, reviewing internal audit reports and
– the internal controls established to mitigate risks of fraud or non-compliance with laws and
reviewing correspondence, if any, with HMRC and other relevant regulatory bodies; and
regulations including the Group’s controls relating to the Group’s ongoing compliance with the
– in addressing the risk of fraud through management override of controls, testing the
Groceries Supply Code of Practice (GSCOP) requirements and the requirements of the United
appropriateness of journal entries and other adjustments; assessing whether the judgements made
Kingdom’s Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) and Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in relation
in making accounting estimates are indicative of a potential bias; and evaluating the business
to the now disposed Banking operations and the retained IMS business; and
rationale of any significant transactions that are unusual or outside the normal course of business.
– the matters discussed among the audit engagement team including component audit teams and
relevant internal specialists, including IT, tax, valuations, pensions actuarial specialists, and industry We also communicated relevant identified laws and regulations and potential fraud risks to all
specialists regarding how and where fraud might occur in the financial statements and any potential engagement team members including internal specialists and component audit teams, and remained
indicators of fraud. alert to any indications of fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations throughout the audit.
As a result of these procedures, we considered the opportunities and incentives that may exist
within the organisation for fraud and identified the greatest potential for fraud in the following area:
recognition of commercial income. In common with all audits under ISAs (UK), we are also required
to perform specific procedures to respond to the risk of management override.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 135 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 133.
Financial statements continued
Independent auditor’s report to the members of Tesco PLC continued
Report on other legal and
regulatory requirements.
12. Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 14. Matters on which we are required to report by exception
14.1. Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records
In our opinion the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited has been properly Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. – we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: – adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate
for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us; or
– the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors’ report for the financial year for
– the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records
which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and
and returns.
– the Strategic report and the Directors’ report have been prepared in accordance with applicable
legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the Parent Company and their We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material
misstatements in the Strategic report or the Directors’ report.
14.2. Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of
13. Corporate governance statement Directors’ remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be
audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
The Listing Rules require us to review the Directors’ statement in relation to going concern, longer-
term viability and that part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Group’s
compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Based on the work undertaken as part of our audit, we have concluded that each of the following
elements of the Corporate Governance Statement is materially consistent with the financial 15. Other matters which we are required to address
statements and our knowledge obtained during the audit:
15.1. Auditor tenure
– the Directors’ statement with regards to the appropriateness of adopting the going concern Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the Group’s
basis of accounting and any material uncertainties identified set out on page 123; shareholders on 25 June 2015 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 27 February 2016
– the Directors’ explanation as to its assessment of the Group’s prospects, the period this and subsequent financial periods.
assessment covers and why the period is appropriate set out on page 50;
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of
– the Directors’ statement on fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 53;
the firm is ten years, covering the years ending 27 February 2016 to 22 February 2025.
– the Board’s confirmation that it has carried out a robust assessment of the emerging and
principal risks set out on page 40; 15.2. Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the Audit Committee
– the section of the Annual Report that describes the review of effectiveness of risk management Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee we are required to
and internal control systems set out on page 40; and provide in accordance with ISAs (UK).
– the section describing the work of the Audit Committee set out on page 80.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 136 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 134.
Financial statements continued
Independent auditor’s report to the members of Tesco PLC continued
16. Use of our report
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of
Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the
Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no
other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to
anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
As required by the FCA Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rule (DTR) 4.1.15R – DTR 4.1.18R, these
financial statements will form part of the Electronic Format Annual Financial Report filed on the
National Storage Mechanism of the FCA in accordance with DTR 4.1.15R – DTR 4.1.18R. This auditor’s
report provides no assurance over whether the Electronic Format Annual Financial Report has been
prepared in compliance with DTR 4.1.15R – DTR 4.1.18R. We have been engaged to provide assurance on
whether the Electronic Format Annual Financial Report has been prepared in compliance with DTR
4.1.15R – DTR 4.1.18R and will publicly report separately to the members on this.
John Adam (Senior statutory auditor)
For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Statutory Auditor
London, United Kingdom
9 April 2025
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 137 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 135.
Group income statement
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
22 February 2025 24 February 2024
Before adjusting Adjusting items Before adjusting Adjusting items
items (Note 5) Total items (Note 5) Total
Notes £m £m £m £m £m £m
Continuing operations
Revenue from sale of goods and services 69,191 - 69,191 67,673 - 67,673
Insurance revenue 24 725 - 725 514 - 514
Revenue 2, 3 69,916 - 69,916 68,187 - 68,187
Cost of sales (63,886) (319) (64,205) (62,832) (4) (62,836)
Insurance service expenses 24 (598) - (598) (454) - (454)
Net expenses from reinsurance contracts held 24 (62) - (62) (48) - (48)
Gross profit/(loss) 5,370 (319) 5,051 4,853 (4) 4,849
Administrative expenses (2,242) (98) (2,340) (2,024) (4) (2,028)
Operating profit/(loss) 2 3,128 (417) 2,711 2,829 (8) 2,821
Share of post-tax profit/(loss) of joint ventures and associates 14 (4) - (4) 6 - 6
Finance income 6 254 - 254 267 - 267
Finance costs 6 (790) 44 (746) (825) 20 (805)
Profit/(loss) before tax from continuing operations 2,588 (373) 2,215 2,277 12 2,289
Taxation 7 (690) 79 (611) (593) 68 (525)
Profit/(loss) for the year from continuing operations 1,898 (294) 1,604 1,684 80 1,764
Discontinued operations
Profit/(loss) for the year from discontinued operations 8 91 (65) 26 56 (628) (572)
Profit/(loss) for the year 1,989 (359) 1,630 1,740 (548) 1,192
Attributable to:
Owners of the parent 1,985 (359) 1,626 1,736 (548) 1,188
Non-controlling interests 4 - 4 4 - 4
1,989 (359) 1,630 1,740 (548) 1,192
Earnings per share from continuing and discontinued operations
Basic 10 23.79p 16.74p
Diluted 10 23.51p 16.56p
Earnings per share from continuing operations
Basic 10 23.41p 24.80p
Diluted 10 23.13p 24.53p
The notes on pages 141 to 211 form part of these financial statements.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 138 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 136.
Group statement of comprehensive income/(loss)
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
22 February 2025 24 February 2024
Notes £m £m
Items that will not be reclassified to the Group income statement
Change in fair value of financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 4 -
Remeasurements of defined benefit pension schemes 29 387 (251)
Net fair value gains/(losses) on inventory cash flow hedges 7 (38)
Tax on items that will not be reclassified 7 (95) 62
303 (227)
Items that may subsequently be reclassified to the Group income statement
Change in fair value of financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 14 16
Currency translation differences:
Retranslation of net assets of overseas subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates (89) (157)
Impact of net investment hedges 33 41
Gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges:
Net fair value gains/(losses) 33 25
Reclassified and reported in the Group income statement (71) (56)
Finance income/(expenses) from insurance contracts issued 24 - (4)
Finance income/(expenses) from reinsurance contracts held 24 1 1
Tax on items that may be reclassified 7 6 (6)
(73) (140)
Total other comprehensive income/(loss) for the year 230 (367)
Profit/(loss) for the year 1,630 1,192
Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year 1,860 825
Attributable to:
Owners of the parent 1,858 820
Non-controlling interests 2 5
Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year 1,860 825
Total comprehensive income/(loss) attributable to owners of the parent arising from:
Continuing operations 1,832 1,392
Discontinued operations 8 26 (572)
1,858 820
The notes on pages 141 to 211 form part of these financial statements.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 139 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 137.
Group balance sheet
22 February 2025 24 February 2024 22 February 2025 24 February 2024
Notes £m £m Notes £m £m
Non-current assets Non-current liabilities
Goodwill and other intangible assets 11 5,087 5,066 Trade and other payables 20 (40) (39)
Property, plant and equipment 12 17,262 17,221 Borrowings 22 (5,089) (5,683)
Right of use assets 13 5,569 5,478 Lease liabilities 13 (7,098) (7,038)
Investment property 24 24 Provisions 23 (166) (175)
Investments in joint ventures and associates 14 110 102 Deposits from central bank 25 - (800)
Other investments 16 934 1,546 Derivative financial instruments 26 (205) (241)
Trade and other receivables 18 158 36 Post-employment benefit deficit 29 (307) (657)
Reinsurance contract assets 24 124 125 Deferred tax liabilities 7 (503) (269)
Derivative financial instruments 26 663 781 (13,408) (14,902)
Post-employment benefit surplus 29 56 22 Net assets 11,662 11,665
Deferred tax assets 7 47 32 Equity
30,034 30,433 Share capital 30 426 445
Current assets Share premium 5,165 5,165
Other investments 16 151 206 Other reserves 30 3,140 3,131
Inventories 17 2,768 2,635 Retained earnings 2,935 2,930
Trade and other receivables 18 1,210 1,349 Equity attributable to owners of the parent 11,666 11,671
Derivative financial instruments 26 172 55 Non-controlling interests (4) (6)
Current tax assets 27 110 Total equity 11,662 11,665
Short-term investments 19 2,223 2,128
Cash and cash equivalents 19 2,255 2,340 The notes on pages 141 to 211 form part of these financial statements.
8,806 8,823
Assets of the disposal group and non-current assets 8 50 7,783 Ken Murphy Imran Nawaz
classified as held for sale
Directors
8,856 16,606
The financial statements on pages 135 to 211 were approved and authorised for issue by the Directors
Current liabilities
on 9 April 2025.
Trade and other payables 20 (10,364) (10,264)
Borrowings 22 (1,861) (1,536)
Lease liabilities 13 (618) (584)
Provisions 23 (300) (306)
Insurance contract liabilities 24 (652) (526)
Deposits from central bank 25 - (108)
Derivative financial instruments 26 (12) (25)
Current tax liabilities (13) (1)
(13,820) (13,350)
Liabilities of the disposal group classified as held for sale 8 - (7,122)
Net current liabilities (4,964) (3,866)
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 140 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 138.
Group statement of changes in equity
Other reserves Non-controlling
Share capital Share premium (Note 30) Retained earnings Total interests Total equity
Notes £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 24 February 2024 445 5,165 3,131 2,930 11,671 (6) 11,665
Profit/(loss) for the year - - - 1,626 1,626 4 1,630
Other comprehensive income/(loss)
Retranslation of net assets of overseas subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates - - (89) - (89) - (89)
Impact of net investment hedges - - 33 - 33 - 33
Change in fair value of financial assets at fair value through other - - - 18 18 - 18
comprehensive income
Remeasurements of defined benefit pension schemes 29 - - - 387 387 - 387
Gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges - - 40 - 40 - 40
Cash flow hedges reclassified and reported in the Group income statement - - (69) - (69) (2) (71)
Finance income/(expenses) from reinsurance contracts held - - 1 - 1 - 1
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 7 - - 7 (96) (89) - (89)
Total other comprehensive income/(loss) - - (77) 309 232 (2) 230
Total comprehensive income/(loss) - - (77) 1,935 1,858 2 1,860
Transfer from translation reserve to retained earnings - - 36 (36) - - -
Inventory cash flow hedge movements
(Gains)/losses transferred to the cost of inventory - - (4) - (4) - (4)
Total inventory cash flow hedge movements - - (4) - (4) - (4)
Transactions with owners
Own shares purchased for cancellation 30 - - (1,016) - (1,016) - (1,016)
Own shares cancelled 30 (19) - 1,035 (1,016) - - -
Own shares purchased for share schemes 30 - - (204) - (204) - (204)
Share-based payments 28 - - 239 (49) 190 - 190
Dividends 9 - - - (865) (865) - (865)
Tax on items charged/(credited) to equity 7 - - - 36 36 - 36
Total transactions with owners (19) - 54 (1,894) (1,859) - (1,859)
At 22 February 2025 426 5,165 3,140 2,935 11,666 (4) 11,662
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 141 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 139.
Group statement of changes in equity continued
Other reserves Non-controlling
Share capital Share premium (Note 30) Retained earnings Total interests Total equity
Notes £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 25 February 2023 463 5,165 3,139 3,469 12,236 (11) 12,225
Profit/(loss) for the year - - - 1,188 1,188 4 1,192
Other comprehensive income/(loss)
Retranslation of net assets of overseas subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates - - (157) - (157) - (157)
Impact of net investment hedges - - 41 - 41 - 41
Change in fair value of financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income - - - 16 16 - 16
Remeasurements of defined benefit pension schemes 29 - - - (251) (251) - (251)
Gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges - - (14) - (14) 1 (13)
Cash flow hedges reclassified and reported in the Group income statement - - (56) - (56) - (56)
Finance income/(expenses) from insurance contracts issued - - (4) - (4) - (4)
Finance income/(expenses) from reinsurance contracts held - - 1 - 1 - 1
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 7 - - (4) 60 56 - 56
Total other comprehensive income/(loss) - - (193) (175) (368) 1 (367)
Total comprehensive income/(loss) - - (193) 1,013 820 5 825
Transfer from hedging reserve to retained earnings - - 44 (44) - - -
Inventory cash flow hedge movements
(Gains)/losses transferred to the cost of inventory - - 79 - 79 - 79
Total inventory cash flow hedge movements - - 79 - 79 - 79
Transactions with owners
Own shares purchased for cancellation 30 - - (752) - (752) - (752)
Own shares cancelled 30 (18) - 770 (752) - - -
Own shares purchased for share schemes 30 - - (140) - (140) - (140)
Share-based payments 28 - - 184 11 195 - 195
Dividends 9 - - - (777) (777) - (777)
Tax on items charged/(credited) to equity 7 - - - 10 10 - 10
Total transactions with owners (18) - 62 (1,508) (1,464) - (1,464)
At 24 February 2024 445 5,165 3,131 2,930 11,671 (6) 11,665
The notes on pages 141 to 211 form part of these financial statements.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 142 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 140.
Group cash flow statement
52 weeks 52 weeks 52 weeks 52 weeks
ended ended ended ended
22 February 24 February 22 February 24 February
2025 2024 2025 2024
Notes £m £m Notes £m £m
Cash flows generated from/(used in) operating activities Cash inflows from maturing short-term investments – deposits(b) 1,910 1,900
Operating profit/(loss) of continuing operations 2,711 2,821 Cash outflows on investing in short-term investments – deposits(b) (1,771) (2,432)
Operating profit/(loss) of discontinued operations 8 35 (659) (Investments in)/proceeds from other short-term investments(b) (234) 25
Depreciation and amortisation 1,775 1,723 Proceeds from sale of other investments 966 352
(Profit)/loss arising on sale of property, plant and equipment, investment 1 (53) Purchase of other investments (290) (390)
property, intangible assets, assets classified as held for sale and early Interest received 255 249
termination of leases
Cash inflows from derivative financial instruments 29 5
(Profit)/loss arising on sale of joint ventures and associates - (9)
Cash outflows from derivative financial instruments (1) (24)
(Profit)/loss arising on sale of subsidiaries and businesses - (12)
Net cash generated from/(used in) investing activities (441) (1,700)
Net impairment loss/(reversal) on property, plant and equipment, right of use 15 298 (28)
Cash flows generated from/(used in) financing activities
assets, intangible assets and investment property
Own shares purchased for cancellation 30 (1,016) (752)
Impairment loss on other investments 10 -
Own shares purchased for share schemes, net of cash received from 28 (54) (93)
Net remeasurement loss of non-current assets held for sale 8 64 720
employees
Defined benefit pension scheme payments 29 (30) (29)
Repayment of capital element of obligations under leases (602) (627)
Share-based payments 28 37 78
Cash outflows exceeding the incremental increase in assets in a property buyback (92) (62)
Fair value movements included in operating profit/(loss) 9 71
Increase in borrowings 462 1,232
(Increase)/decrease in inventories (141) (150)
Repayment of borrowings (809) (775)
(Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables and reinsurance assets (5) (129)
Cash inflows from derivative financial instruments 485 98
Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables and insurance liabilities 158 698
Cash outflows from derivative financial instruments (453) (102)
Increase/(decrease) in provisions (10) (77)
Dividends paid to equity owners 9 (864) (778)
Increase/(decrease) in deposits from central bank 25 (908) (72)
Net cash generated from/(used in) financing activities (2,943) (1,859)
Increase/(decrease) in working capital of the Banking operations disposal group 53 (7)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (462) 280
(Increase)/decrease in working capital(a) (853) 263
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 1,874 1,565
Cash generated from/(used in) operations 4,057 4,886
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes (13) 29
Interest paid (769) (824)
Cash and cash equivalents, including cash held in the Banking operations 1,399 1,874
Corporation tax paid (366) (223) disposal group, at the end of the year
Net cash generated from/(used in) operating activities 2,922 3,839 Less: Cash held in the Banking operations disposal group - (346)
Cash flows generated from/(used in) investing activities Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 19 1,399 1,528
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment, investment property, 137 55
(a) Comparative (increase)/decrease in working capital has been re-presented to present increase/(decrease) in deposits from
intangible assets and assets classified as held for sale central bank and increase/(decrease) in working capital of the Banking operations disposal group separately following the sale of
Purchase of property, plant and equipment and investment property (1,247) (1,108) Banking operations. These were previously included in the subsection relating to Tesco Bank. There is no impact on net cash
generated from operating, investing, or financing activities, and no impact on any APMs.
Purchase of intangible assets (292) (278) (b) Comparative net (investments in)/proceeds from sale of short-term investments has been re-presented as cash inflows from
Disposal of subsidiaries, net of cash disposed - 15 maturing short-term investments – deposits, cash outflows on investing in short-term investments – deposits and (investments
in)/proceeds from other short-term investments. There is no impact on net cash generated from operating, investing, or financing
Disposal of Banking operations, net of cash disposed 8 157 - activities, and no impact on any APMs.
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired (46) (17) The notes on pages 141 to 211 form part of these financial statements.
Proceeds from sale of joint ventures and associates - 9
Increase in loans to joint ventures and associates (1) (61)
Investments in joint ventures and associates (15) (9)
Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 2 9
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 143 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 141.
Notes to the Group financial statements
Note 1 Accounting policies, judgements and estimates Segmental reporting
Following the disposal of the Group’s Banking operations, the Group no longer presents Tesco Bank
General information
as a separate reportable segment. The remaining Insurance and Money Services business previously
Tesco PLC (the Company) is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in England and
reported within the Tesco Bank segment have been reclassified to the UK and the Republic of Ireland
Wales under the Companies Act 2006 (registration number 00445790). The address of the registered
office is Tesco House, Shire Park, Kestrel Way, Welwyn Garden City, AL7 1GA, UK. (UK & ROI) segment, with comparative segmental reporting restated (refer to Note 2).
The main activities of the Company and its subsidiaries (together, the Group) are those of retailing Basis of consolidation
The consolidated Group financial statements consist of the financial statements of the ultimate
and related services.
Parent Company (Tesco PLC), all entities controlled by the Company (its subsidiaries) and the Group’s
Basis of preparation share of its interests in joint ventures and associates, accounted for using the equity method.
The consolidated Group financial statements have been prepared in accordance with UK-adopted
The financial year represents the 52 weeks ended 22 February 2025 (prior financial year 52 weeks
IFRS. The consolidated Group financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling, generally
ended 24 February 2024). For the UK & ROI, the results are for the 52 weeks ended 22 February 2025
rounded to the nearest million. They are prepared on the historical cost basis, except for certain
(prior financial year 52 weeks ended 24 February 2024), with the exception of Insurance and Money
financial instruments, share-based payments and pension assets that have been measured at
Services. For all other operations (including Insurance and Money Services), the results are for the
fair value.
calendar year ended 28 February 2025 (prior calendar year ended 29 February 2024).
The Directors have, at the time of approving the financial statements, a reasonable expectation that
the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the Revenue
Revenue is income arising from the sale of goods and services in the ordinary course of the Group’s
foreseeable future, which reflects a period of 18 months from the date of approval of the financial
activities, net of value added taxes. Revenue is recognised when performance obligations are satisfied
statements, and have concluded that there are no material uncertainties relating to going concern.
and control has transferred to the customer. For the majority of revenue streams, there is a low level
Thus, they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the consolidated
of judgement applied in determining the transaction price or the timing of transfer of control.
Group financial statements. The scenarios considered as part of the going concern assessment are
consistent with those used in the Longer-term viability statement. Further information on the Group’s Revenue from sale of goods and services
strong liquidity position is given in the Summary of Net Debt section of the Financial review, and Sale of goods
information on committed facilities is provided in Note 27. The sale of goods represents the vast majority of the Group’s revenue. For goods sold in store, and
fuel, revenue is recognised at the point of sale. For online or wholesale sales of goods, revenue is
Unless otherwise stated, the accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all
recognised on collection by, or delivery to, the customer. Revenue is reduced by a provision for
periods presented in these consolidated Group financial statements.
expected returns (refund liability). An asset and corresponding adjustment to cost of sales is
Standards, interpretations and amendments that became effective in the current financial year have recognised for the Group’s right to recover goods from customers.
not had a material impact on the consolidated Group financial statements.
Clubcard (customer loyalty programme)
The Group has not applied any standards, interpretations or amendments that have been issued but Clubcard points issued by Tesco when a customer purchases goods are a separate performance
are not yet effective. obligation providing a material right to a future discount. The total transaction price (sales price of
The impact of the following is under assessment: goods) is allocated to the Clubcard points and the goods sold based on their relative standalone
selling prices, with the Clubcard points’ standalone price based on the value of the points to the
– IFRS 18 ‘Presentation and disclosure in financial statements’, which will become effective in the customer, adjusted for expected redemption rates (breakage). The amount allocated to Clubcard
consolidated Group financial statements for the financial year ending 26 February 2028, subject to points is deferred as a contract liability within trade and other payables.
UK endorsement.
Revenue is recognised as the points are redeemed by the customer. Revenue related to breakage is
Other standards, interpretations and amendments issued but not yet effective are not expected to recognised in line with redemptions, subject to the variable consideration constraint (i.e. provided it is
have a material impact on the consolidated Group financial statements. highly probable not to result in a significant reversal of the cumulative revenue recognised), with the
Discontinued operations remainder recognised on expiry of the points.
During the prior financial year, the Board approved a plan to dispose of the Group’s regulated Banking
operations, which formed the major part of the previous Tesco Bank segment. The disposal of the
Banking operations completed on 1 November 2024. The net results of the Banking operations are
presented as a discontinued operation in the Group income statement. For further details, refer
to Note 8.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 144 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 142.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
Note 1 Accounting policies, judgements and estimates continued or sales volume targets and providing promotional or marketing materials and activities or
promotional product positioning. While there is no standard industry definition, these amounts
Data science services
receivable from suppliers in connection with the purchase of goods for resale are generally termed
The Group generates revenue from the provision of consultancy services (customer data science
commercial income.
and analytics), software access and media services through its data science business dunnhumby.
Revenue is recognised either over time or at a point in time, with a low level of judgement typically Commercial income is recognised when earned by the Group, which occurs when all obligations
required to determine the transaction price or timing of transfer of benefit to the customer. The conditional for earning income have been discharged, and the income can be measured reliably based
Group recognises revenue over time if the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the on the terms of the contract. The income is recognised as a credit within cost of sales. Where the
benefits provided as the service is performed, or performance of the service does not create an income earned relates to inventories which are held by the Group at the reporting date, the income is
asset with an alternative use and the Group has an enforceable right to payment for work to date. included within the cost of those inventories and recognised in cost of sales upon sale of those
For services performed over time, revenue is recognised based on progress in fulfilling the service inventories.
unless it is provided on a ‘stand-ready’ basis, in which case revenue is recognised over the period the
Finance income
service is expected to be utilised. Revenue recognised at a point in time is recognised when the
Finance income is recognised in the Group income statement in the period to which it relates using
relevant performance obligation is satisfied.
the effective interest rate method.
Money services
Finance costs
The majority of the fees in respect of money services (including ATMs, travel money and gift cards)
Borrowing costs are recognised in the Group income statement in the period in which they occur
are recognised at the point in time at which the transaction with the customer takes place and the
using the effective interest rate method.
service is performed. For services performed over time, payment is generally due and revenue is
generally recognised monthly in line with the satisfaction of performance obligations. Business combinations and goodwill
The Group accounts for all business combinations by applying the acquisition method. All acquisition-
Insurance brokerage commission
related costs are expensed.
The Group generates commission income from the sale of white label pet and travel insurance
products underwritten by third-party providers, which is recognised on a net basis as such policies On acquisition, the assets (including intangible assets), liabilities and contingent liabilities of an
are sold, in line with the satisfaction of performance obligations to customers. This is based on acquired business are measured at their fair values. Non-controlling interests are stated at the
commission rates which are independent of the profitability of underlying insurance policies. non-controlling interests’ proportion of the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised.
The Group also recognises commission income from certain policy renewals at the point the original Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the consideration transferred, plus the
policies are sold. This is when the Group has satisfied all of its performance obligations in relation to amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the fair value of any previously held equity
the policy sold and it is considered highly probable that a significant reversal in the amount of revenue interest in the acquiree, over the fair value of the net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities
recognised will not occur in future periods. This calculation takes into account both estimates of assumed. If the consideration is less than the fair value of the Group’s share of the net assets and
future renewal volumes and renewal commission rates. A contract asset is recognised in relation to liabilities acquired (i.e. a bargain purchase), the difference is credited to the Group income statement
this revenue. This is unwound over the remainder of the contract with the customer, in this case being in the period of acquisition.
the third-party insurance provider.
At the acquisition date, goodwill is recognised as an asset and is allocated to each of the cash-
The end policyholders have the right to cancel an insurance policy at any time. Therefore, a contract generating units or groups of cash-generating units expected to benefit from the business
liability is recognised for the amount of any expected refunds due and the revenue recognised in combination’s synergies and to the lowest level at which management monitors the goodwill. Goodwill
relation to these sales is reduced accordingly. This contract refund liability is estimated using prior arising on the acquisition of joint ventures and associates is included within the carrying value of the
experience of customer refunds. The appropriateness of the assumptions used in this calculation is investment. When disposing of or reorganising part of a cash-generating unit or group of cash-
reassessed at each reporting date. generating units to which goodwill has been allocated, the goodwill is reallocated between the
affected operations on the basis of their relative values. On disposal of a business, subsidiary, joint
Insurance revenue
venture or associate, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit
Insurance revenue relates to motor and home insurance policies underwritten by the Group’s
or loss on disposal.
subsidiary, Tesco Underwriting Limited. Refer to the Insurance section below.
Cloud software licence agreements
Commercial income
Licence agreements to use cloud software are treated as service contracts and expensed in the Group
Consistent with standard industry practice, the Group has agreements with suppliers whereby
income statement, unless the Group has both a contractual right to take possession of the software at
volume-related allowances, promotional and marketing allowances and various other fees and
any time without significant penalty, and the ability to run the software independently of the host
discounts are received in connection with the purchase of goods for resale from those suppliers.
vendor. In such cases the licence agreement is capitalised as software within intangible assets.
Most of the income received from suppliers relates to adjustments to a core cost price of a product,
and as such is considered part of the purchase price for that product. Sometimes receipt of the Costs to configure or customise a cloud software licence are expensed alongside the related service
income is conditional on the Group performing specified actions or satisfying certain performance contract in the Group income statement, unless they create a separately identifiable resource
conditions associated with the purchase of the product. These include achieving agreed purchases controlled by the Group, in which case they are capitalised.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 145 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 143.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
Intangible assets Where the carrying amount of a non-current asset or disposal group held for sale exceeds its fair
Intangible assets with finite useful lives are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and value less costs to sell, a loss is recognised. This is allocated firstly against any goodwill attributable to
accumulated impairment losses. They are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated the disposal group, and then to other non-current assets in the disposal group that are in scope of
useful lives of three to 10 years for software and up to 10 years for customer relationships. Intangible IFRS 5’s measurement requirements. Any excess loss remaining is recognised against the remaining
assets with indefinite useful lives, such as pharmacy licences, are not amortised. assets of the disposal group as a whole.
Research costs are expensed as incurred. Development expenditure incurred on an individual project A component of the Group that is held for sale or disposed of is presented as a discontinued
is capitalised only if specific criteria are met. operation either when it is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale; or it represents, or
is part of a coordinated plan to dispose of, a separate major line of business or geographical area of
Property, plant and equipment
operations. The net results of discontinued operations are presented separately in the Group income
Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated
statement (and the comparatives restated).
impairment losses. Property, plant and equipment is depreciated on a straight-line basis to its residual
value over its anticipated useful economic life: Leases
The Group assesses whether a contract is, or contains, a lease at inception of the contract.
– freehold buildings – 10 to 40 years; and
– fixtures and fittings, office equipment, and motor vehicles – three to 20 years. The Group as a lessee
A right of use asset and corresponding lease liability are recognised at commencement of the lease.
Impairment of non-financial assets
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment at least annually by assessing the recoverable amount of each The lease liability is measured at the present value of the lease payments, discounted at the rate
cash-generating unit, or group of cash-generating units, to which the goodwill relates. For all other implicit in the lease, or if that cannot be readily determined, at the lessee’s incremental borrowing
non-financial assets, the Group performs impairment testing where there are indicators of rate specific to the term, country, currency and start date of the lease.
impairment. Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets,
The lease liability is subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate
the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
method. It is remeasured, with a corresponding adjustment to the right of use asset, when there is
When the recoverable amount is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised
a change in future lease payments resulting from a rent review, change in an index or rate such as
immediately in the Group income statement.
inflation, or change in the Group’s assessment of whether it is reasonably certain to exercise a
Goodwill impairments are not subsequently reversed. Where an impairment loss on other non-financial purchase, extension or break option.
assets subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset (or cash-generating unit) is increased
The right of use asset is initially measured at cost, comprising: the initial lease liability; any lease
to the revised estimate of the recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does
payments already made less any lease incentives received; initial direct costs; and any dilapidation or
not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined if no impairment loss had been
restoration costs. The right of use asset is subsequently depreciated on a straight-line basis over the
recognised for the asset (or cash-generating unit) in prior years. A reversal of an impairment loss is
shorter of the lease term or the useful life of the underlying asset, and tested for impairment.
recognised immediately as a credit to the Group income statement.
Leases of low value assets (value when new less than £5,000) and short-term leases of 12 months
Inventories
or less are expensed to the Group income statement, as are variable payments dependent on
Inventories comprise goods and development properties held for resale. Inventories are valued at the
performance or usage not arising on a sale and leaseback transaction, ‘out of contract’ payments
lower of cost and net realisable value using the weighted average cost basis.
and non-lease service components.
Cash and cash equivalents
The Group as a lessor
Cash and cash equivalents in the Group balance sheet consist of cash at bank and on hand, credit and
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the
debit card receivables, demand deposits with banks and short-term highly liquid investments with an
risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases, for
original maturity of three months or less, for example short-term deposits, loans and advances to
which rental income is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
banks, commercial paper and certificates of deposit. Overdrafts are presented in borrowings as they
are held under notional pooling arrangements and do not meet the offsetting criteria to be presented Sale and leaseback
net of cash on the balance sheet. Cash and cash equivalents in the Group cash flow statement include Where the Group sells an asset and immediately reacquires use of it by entering into a lease with
overdrafts repayable on demand as they form an integral part of the Group’s cash management. the buyer, a lease liability is recognised, the associated property, plant and equipment asset is
derecognised, and a right of use asset is recognised at the proportion of the carrying value relating
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations
to the right retained. Any gain or loss arising relates to the rights transferred to the buyer.
Non-current assets (or disposal groups) are classified as assets held for sale when their carrying
amount is to be recovered principally through a sale transaction and a sale is considered highly In the cash flow statement, sale and leaseback proceeds received are classified as investing cash
probable. They are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell, with the flows, unless the proceeds exceed the fair value of the asset sold, in which case the excess proceeds
exception of assets which are scoped out of the measurement requirements of IFRS 5 ‘Non-current are classified as financing cash flows.
assets held for sale and discontinued operations’, for example financial assets, which continue to be
measured in accordance with IFRS 9 ‘Financial instruments’.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 146 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 144.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
Note 1 Accounting policies, judgements and estimates continued The Group has applied the Pillar Two income taxes exception in IAS 12, so neither recognises nor
discloses information about deferred tax assets and liabilities related to Pillar Two income taxes.
Property buybacks
A property buyback is where a property that is currently leased is bought back from the landlord. Tax provisions are recognised for uncertain tax positions where a risk of an additional tax liability has
Property buybacks that are a direct purchase of the underlying asset, outside of a corporate wrapper, been identified and it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that tax. Measurement is
are viewed as the modification of the lease to include a purchase option, followed by the immediate dependent on management’s expectation of the outcome of decisions by tax authorities in the
exercise of that purchase option. The lease liability is settled and the right of use asset forms part of various tax jurisdictions in which the Group operates. This is assessed on a case-by-case basis using
the cost of the property, plant and equipment acquired, and no gain or loss is recognised in the in-house tax experts, professional firms, and previous experience. Refer to Note 7.
income statement from the property buyback.
Foreign currencies
Property buybacks inside a corporate wrapper (such as a special purpose vehicle or joint venture At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies
structure) that do not meet the definition of a business combination are asset acquisitions. The cost are retranslated to the functional currency at the rates prevailing at the balance sheet date. Exchange
of the asset acquisition includes the cash consideration paid and the carrying values of pre-existing differences are recognised in the Group income statement in the period in which they arise, apart
lease contracts and any previously held interests. No gain or loss is recognised in the income from exchange differences on transactions entered into to hedge certain foreign currency risks, and
statement from the property buyback. exchange differences on monetary items forming part of the net investment in a foreign operation.
In the cash flow statement, property buyback net proceeds paid are classified as investing cash flows, The assets and liabilities of the Group’s foreign operations are translated into Pounds Sterling at
unless the proceeds exceed the incremental asset purchased (difference between property, plant exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date. Profits and losses are translated at average
and equipment recognised and right of use asset derecognised), in which case the excess proceeds exchange rates for the relevant accounting periods. Exchange differences arising are recognised in
are classified as financing cash flows. the Group statement of comprehensive income/(loss) and are included in the Group’s translation
reserve. Such translation differences are recognised as income or expenses in the period in which
Post-employment benefit obligations
the operation is disposed of.
For defined benefit plans, obligations are measured at discounted present value and plan assets are
recorded at fair value. Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Group balance sheet when the Group
The operating and financing costs of such plans are recognised separately in the Group income
becomes party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. Classification and subsequent
statement. Service costs are spread systematically over the expected service lives of employees and
remeasurement depends on the Group’s business model for managing the financial asset and its cash
financing costs are recognised in the periods in which they arise. Actuarial gains and losses are
flow characteristics. Financial assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows, where
recognised immediately in the Group statement of comprehensive income/(loss).
those cash flows represent solely payments of principal and interest, are measured at amortised cost,
Payments to defined contribution schemes are recognised as an expense as they fall due. and all other financial assets are measured either at fair value through profit or loss or fair value
Taxation through other comprehensive income.
The tax expense included in the Group income statement consists of current and deferred tax. Trade receivables
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the financial year, using tax rates Trade receivables are non interest-bearing and are recognised initially at fair value, or at transaction
enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. price if there is not a significant financing component. They are subsequently held at amortised cost
using the effective interest rate method, less allowance for expected credit losses (ECLs).
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences
between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the Investments
amounts used for taxation purposes. Investments in debt instruments at amortised cost are measured at amortised cost, using the
effective interest rate method less allowance for ECLs.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is
settled or the asset realised, based on the tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted Gains and losses on investments in debt instruments held at fair value through other comprehensive
by the balance sheet date. income are recognised directly in other comprehensive income, except for impairment gains and
losses, interest income, and foreign exchange gains and losses, which are recognised in the Group
The tax expense is recognised in the Group income statement, except when it relates to items income statement. When the debt instrument is derecognised, cumulative amounts in other
recognised directly in the Group statement of changes in equity or the Group statement of comprehensive income are reclassified to the Group income statement.
comprehensive income/(loss), in which case the tax follows the same treatment.
Investments in equity instruments have been irrevocably designated at fair value through other
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available comprehensive income.
against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Property fund and other investments held at fair value through profit or loss are measured at fair
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset against each other when there is a legally enforceable value, with changes in fair value recognised in the Group income statement.
right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and they relate to income taxes levied
by the same taxation authority on either the same taxable entity or different taxable entities which
intend to settle current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 147 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 145.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
Short-term investments Fair value hedging
Short-term investments are liquid financial assets which have an original maturity of 12 months or less. Derivative financial instruments are classified as fair value hedges when they hedge the Group’s
Short-term investments are typically readily available for conversion to cash, but do not meet the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability. Changes in the fair value of
criteria for classification as cash equivalents because either their maturity is greater than three derivatives that are designated as fair value hedges are recognised in the Group income statement
months, for example short-term deposits, reverse repurchase agreements, commercial paper, and within finance income or costs, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged item that
certificates of deposit, or the risk of changes in value is more than insignificant, for example money is attributable to the hedged risk.
market funds.
If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the adjustment to the carrying amount
Impairment of financial assets of a hedged item is amortised to the Group income statement over the remaining period to maturity.
The Group assesses on a forward-looking basis the ECLs associated with its financial assets carried
Cash flow hedging
at amortised cost and debt instruments carried at fair value through other comprehensive income.
Derivative financial instruments are classified as cash flow hedges when they hedge the Group’s
The ECLs are updated at each reporting date to reflect changes in credit risk.
exposure to variability in cash flows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a
The three-stage model for impairment has been applied to investments in debt instruments at recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable forecast transaction. The effective element of any
amortised cost, investments in debt instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income, gain or loss from remeasuring the derivative designated as the hedging instrument is recognised
short-term investments, and loan receivables from joint ventures and associates. The credit risk is directly in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the hedging reserve. The ineffective
determined through modelling a range of possible outcomes for different loss scenarios, using element is recognised immediately in the Group income statement.
reasonable and supportable information about past events, current conditions and forecasts of
Where the hedged item subsequently results in the recognition of a non-financial asset such as
future events and economic conditions and taking into account the time value of money. A 12-month
inventory, the amounts accumulated in the hedging reserve are included in the initial cost of the
ECL is recognised, unless the credit risk on the financial asset increases significantly after initial
asset. For all other cash flow hedges, the amounts accumulated are recognised in the Group income
recognition, when the lifetime ECL is recognised. The expected lifetime of a financial asset is generally
statement when the hedged item or transaction affects the Group income statement.
the contractual term.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or
For trade receivables, contract assets, and lease receivables, the Group applies the simplified
exercised or no longer meets the Group’s risk management objective. The cumulative gain or loss in
approach permitted by IFRS 9, with lifetime ECLs recognised from initial recognition of the receivable.
the hedging reserve remains until the forecast transaction occurs or the original hedged item affects
These assets are grouped, based on shared credit risk characteristics and days past due, with ECLs
the Group income statement.
for each grouping determined based on the Group’s historical credit loss experience, adjusted for
factors specific to each receivable, general economic conditions and expected changes in forecast If a forecast hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss in the
conditions. hedging reserve is reclassified to the Group income statement.
Borrowings Net investment hedging
Borrowings and overdrafts are initially recorded at fair value, net of attributable transaction costs. Financial instruments are classified as net investment hedges when they hedge the Group’s net
Subsequent to initial recognition, borrowings are held at amortised cost with any difference between investment in an overseas operation. The effective element of any foreign exchange gain or loss from
proceeds and redemption value being recognised in the Group income statement over the period of remeasuring the instrument is recognised directly in other comprehensive income and accumulated
the borrowings on an effective interest basis. in the translation reserve in equity. Any ineffective element is recognised immediately in the Group
income statement. Gains and losses accumulated in the translation reserve are reclassified to the
Trade payables
Group income statement when the foreign operation is disposed of.
Trade payables are non interest-bearing and are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Offsetting financial instruments
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the Group balance sheet
Equity instruments
when there is a current legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an
Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue
intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
costs.
Provisions
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting
Provisions are measured at the present value of the risk-adjusted expenditures expected to be
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange, inflation,
required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market
interest rate, and commodity risks arising from operating, financing and investing activities.
assessments of the time value of money.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised and stated at fair value. Where derivatives do not
qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses on remeasurement are immediately recognised in the
Group income statement. Where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant
gain or loss depends on the nature of the hedge relationship and the item being hedged.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 148 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 146.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
Note 1 Accounting policies, judgements and estimates continued uncertainty in respect of the amount and timing of the cash flows from non-financial risk, whilst the
CSM represents the unearned profit in the contracts relating to services that will be provided under
Supplier financing arrangements
the contracts in the future.
Management reviews supplier financing arrangements to determine the appropriate presentation
of balances outstanding as trade payables or borrowings, dependent on the nature of each Commission payable to agents and other acquisition costs, which are incurred for acquiring new and
arrangement. Factors considered in determining the appropriate presentation include the renewal insurance business that is primarily related to the production of that business, are deferred
commercial rationale for the arrangement, impact on the Group’s working capital positions, and presented as part of the LRC. Such deferred acquisition costs are amortised over the period of
credit enhancements or other benefits provided to the bank and recourse exposures. insurance contract services on the basis of the passage of time.
Balances outstanding under the Group’s supplier financing arrangements are classified as trade The carrying amount of the LRC measured under the GMM is updated at the end of each reporting
payables, and cash flows are included in operating cash flows, since the financing arrangements period to reflect current estimates of the amounts, timing and uncertainty of future cash flows, as
are agreed between the supplier and the banks, and the Group does not provide additional credit well as discount rates and other financial variables.
enhancement nor obtain any working capital benefit from the arrangements. Refer to Note 20.
The Group estimates the LIC as the discounted value of expected fulfilment cash flows related to
Insurance incurred claims and other incurred insurance expenses, plus an explicit adjustment for non-financial
Classification of insurance contracts risk. The fulfilment cash flows incorporate, in an unbiased way, all reasonable and supportable
Contracts under which the Group accepts significant insurance risk from another party (the information available about the amount, timing and uncertainty of those future cash flows. Estimates
policyholder) by agreeing to compensate the policyholder or other beneficiary if a specified uncertain of the present value of future cash flows reflect current expectations as at the end of the reporting
future event (the insured event) adversely affects the policyholder or other beneficiary are classified period and are adjusted for events which have occurred since actuarial valuation.
as insurance contracts. These contracts remain insurance contracts until all rights and obligations are
Future cash flows are assessed by reviewing individual claims data and making an allowance for claims
extinguished or expire. Insurance contracts may also transfer some financial risk.
incurred but not yet reported, adjusted for the effect on the claims incurred of both internal and
Level of aggregation external foreseeable events, such as changes in claims handling procedures, inflation, judicial trends,
The level of aggregation for the Group is determined firstly by dividing the business written into motor substantively enacted legislative changes and past experience and trends.
and home portfolios. Portfolios comprise groups of contracts with similar risks which are managed
Reinsurance
together. At initial recognition the Group assesses whether the motor and home portfolios are divided
The Group cedes reinsurance in the normal course of business for the purpose of limiting its net loss
further into groups of contracts that are onerous, have no significant possibility of becoming onerous,
potential through the diversification of its risks. Reinsurance ceded includes quota share, excess of
or are neither.
loss and adverse development cover contracts. Reinsurance arrangements do not relieve the Group
In determining the level of aggregation, the Group identifies a contract as the smallest ‘unit’, i.e. the from its direct obligations to its policyholders. Only contracts that give rise to a significant transfer of
lowest common denominator. No group for level of aggregation purposes shall contain contracts insurance risk are accounted for as reinsurance contracts.
issued more than one year apart.
Reinsurance assets include balances due from reinsurance companies for reinsurance claims.
The Group divides portfolios of reinsurance contracts held applying the same principles. Amounts recoverable from reinsurers are estimated in a manner consistent with the outstanding
claims provision or settled claims associated with the reinsured policy.
Insurance contracts issued
Insurance contract liabilities include both a liability for incurred claims (LIC), which represents The Group applies the PAA to all reinsurance contracts that it holds, except for contracts held prior
outstanding claims and incurred but not reported claims and other incurred insurance expenses; to the acquisition of TU. The PAA is applicable for all reinsurance contracts purchased since the
and a liability for remaining coverage (LRC), which represents the Group’s obligation for insured events acquisition of TU as the contracts either qualify automatically in having a coverage period of one
related to the unexpired portion of the coverage period. The LRC is measured either using the general year or less, or because there is no material difference in their measurement between the PAA and
measurement model (GMM) or a simplified premium allocation approach (PAA). the GMM.
The Group applies the PAA to all insurance contracts issued since the acquisition of Tesco Modification and derecognition of insurance and reinsurance contracts
Underwriting (TU) in May 2021. The Group qualifies to use this approach as the coverage period of The Group derecognises insurance and reinsurance contracts when the rights and obligations relating
each contract in the group is one year or less. There is no allowance for the time value of money to the contract are extinguished (i.e. discharged, cancelled or expired). When a modification is not
as the premiums are due within one year of the coverage period. treated as a derecognition, the Group recognises amounts paid or received for the modification with
the contract as an adjustment to the relevant LRC or asset for remaining coverage.
The Group applies the GMM to all issued insurance contracts acquired on the acquisition of TU,
as the settlement of these claims and their associated insurance risk will spread over multiple Presentation of insurance contracts issued and reinsurance contracts held
years. The Group has recognised an acquired claims liability as part of the LRC, which is measured The Group classifies all insurance contract liabilities as current as it does not have the right to defer
at the probability-weighted average of discounted cash flows plus a risk adjustment for non-financial settlement beyond 12 months after the reporting date. The Group classifies its reinsurance portfolio
risk, plus any contractual service margin (CSM) if the fulfilment cash flows result in a net inflow. as non-current as it does not reasonably expect to realise its reinsurance assets within 12 months of
If the fulfilment cash flows result in a net outflow, an onerous loss is recognised in the Group income the reporting date.
statement. The risk adjustment reflects the compensation that the Group requires for bearing
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 149 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 147.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
Insurance revenue Critical accounting judgements
The insurance revenue recognised is the amount of expected premium receipts allocated to the Critical judgements, apart from those involving estimations, which are applied in the preparation of
period. For insurance contracts issued after the acquisition of TU in May 2021, the Group allocates the consolidated Group financial statements are discussed below:
the expected premium receipts to each period of insurance contract services based on the passage
Leases
of time.
Management exercises judgement in determining the likelihood of exercising break or extension
The insurance revenue recognised for insurance contracts acquired as part of the acquisition of options in determining the lease term. Break and extension options are included to provide
TU comprises: operational flexibility should the economic outlook for an asset be different to expectations, and
hence at commencement of the lease, break or extension options are not typically considered
– claims costs incurred in the period measured at the amounts expected at the beginning of
reasonably certain to be exercised, unless there is a valid business reason otherwise.
the period;
– changes in the risk adjustment for non-financial risk; and The discount rate used to calculate the lease liability is the rate implicit in the lease, if it can be readily
– the amount of the CSM recognised for services provided in the period. determined, or the lessee’s incremental borrowing rate if not. Management uses the rate implicit in
the lease where the lessor is a related party (such as leases from joint ventures) and the lessee’s
Insurance service expenses
incremental borrowing rate for all other leases. Incremental borrowing rates are determined monthly
Insurance service expenses include total claims cost for the period, as well as all directly attributable
and depend on the term, country, currency and start date of the lease. The incremental borrowing
insurance expenses. There are no acquisition costs for acquired claims. Insurance acquisition cash
rate is determined based on a series of inputs including: the risk-free rate based on government bond
flows arising from the costs of selling, underwriting and starting a group of insurance contracts are
rates; a country-specific risk adjustment; a credit risk adjustment based on Tesco bond yields; and an
allocated to insurance service expenses based on the passage of time.
entity-specific adjustment where the entity risk profile is different to that of the Group.
Net income or expenses from reinsurance contracts held
Refer to Note 13 for additional disclosures relating to leases.
The Group separately presents income or expenses from reinsurance contracts held from the
expenses or income from insurance contracts issued. The Group presents the income or expenses Joint ventures and associates
from a group of reinsurance contracts held as a single amount. The Group has assessed the nature of its joint arrangements under IFRS 11 ‘Joint arrangements’ and
determined them to be joint ventures. These assessments required the exercise of judgement as set
Insurance finance income and expenses
out in Note 14.
Insurance finance income and expenses comprise the change in the carrying amount of the group
of insurance contracts arising from the effect of the time value of money, financial risk and changes APMs – Adjusting items
in financial risk. Adjusting items relate to certain costs or incomes that derive from events or transactions that fall
within the normal activities of the Group but which, individually or, if of a similar type, in aggregate,
The impact of changes in market interest rates on the carrying value of insurance assets and liabilities
are excluded from the Group’s APMs by virtue of their size and nature in order to provide a helpful
is reflected in the Group statement of other comprehensive income in order to minimise accounting
alternative perspective of the year-on-year trends, performance and position of the Group’s trading
mismatches between the accounting for financial assets and insurance assets and liabilities. The
business that is more comparable over time. This alternative view is consistent with how management
Group’s financial assets backing both the motor and home insurance portfolios are predominantly
views the business, and how it is reported internally to the Board and Executive Committee for
measured at fair value through other comprehensive income.
performance analysis, planning, reporting, decision-making and incentive-setting purposes.
The amount of insurance finance income and expenses recognised in the Group income statement
Management exercises judgement in determining the adjustments to apply to IFRS measurements, and
is calculated using the discount rate curve determined at the date of the incurred claim.
this assessment covers the nature of the item, cause of occurrence and the scale of impact of that
Alternative performance measures (APMs) item on reported performance and individual financial statement line items, as well as consistency
In the reporting of financial information, the Directors have adopted various APMs. Refer to the with prior periods. Reversals of previous adjusting items are assessed based on the same criteria to
Glossary for a full list of the Group’s APMs, including comprehensive definitions, their purpose, ensure an even-handed treatment of gains and losses. The amount and timing of adjusting items can
reconciliations to IFRS measures and details of any changes to APMs. be unpredictable and subject to a higher level of scrutiny by users of the accounts. Adjusting items
can include, but are not limited to: litigation costs; certain impairment charges and reversals; property
Judgements and sources of estimation uncertainty
transactions such as disposals; amortisation of acquired intangibles; changes in uncertain tax
The preparation of the consolidated Group financial statements requires management to make
positions; restructuring and redundancy costs; profits or losses on disposal of businesses; net pension
judgements, estimates and assumptions in applying the Group’s accounting policies to determine
finance costs; and fair value remeasurements of financial instruments. The tax effect of such items is
the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. The estimates and associated
also classified as adjusting.
assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be
reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates. The estimates The Group income statement is presented in a columnar format to enable users of the accounts to
and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis, with revisions to accounting estimates see the Group’s performance before adjusting items, the adjusting items, and the statutory total on a
applied prospectively. line-by-line basis. An analysis of the adjusting items included in the Group income statement, together
with the impact of these items on the Group cash flow statement, is disclosed in Note 5.
Refer to pages 228 to 234 for further details on the Group’s APMs.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 150 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 148.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
Note 1 Accounting policies, judgements and estimates continued The activities of the Group are presented in the following reportable segments:
Key sources of estimation uncertainty – UK & ROI – the United Kingdom and Republic of Ireland; and
The key assumptions about the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the – Central Europe – Czech Republic, Hungary and Slovakia.
reporting period end, that may have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying
The CODM uses adjusted operating profit, as reviewed at periodic Executive Committee meetings,
amount of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below:
as the key measure of the segments’ results as it reflects the segments’ trading performance and
Post-employment benefit obligations aids comparability over time. Adjusted operating profit is a consistent measure within the Group as
The present value of post-employment benefit obligations is determined on an actuarial basis defined within the Glossary. Refer to Note 5 for adjusting items. Inter-segment revenue is not material.
using various assumptions, including the discount rate, inflation rate and mortality assumptions.
Income statement
Any changes in these assumptions will impact the carrying amount as well as the net pension
The segment results and the reconciliation of the segment measures to the respective statutory items
cost/(income). Key assumptions and sensitivities for post-employment benefit obligations are
included in the Group income statement are as follows:
disclosed in Note 29.
Impairment of non-financial assets Continuing Continuing
The Group evaluates non-current assets for impairment as set out in Note 15. The key assumptions operations operations
Central at constant Foreign at actual
and estimates to which the recoverable amounts are most sensitive, the methodology for calculating
52 weeks ended 22 February 2025 UK & ROI Europe exchange exchange exchange
them and sensitivities are also disclosed in Note 15. At constant exchange rates Notes £m £m £m £m £m
Other significant estimates Revenue 3 65,667 4,580 70,247 (331) 69,916
Other estimates for which management believes there is a limited risk of a material change in the Less: Fuel sales (6,133) (155) (6,288) 8 (6,280)
amounts recognised or disclosed in the next financial year are discussed below: Sales 59,534 4,425 63,959 (323) 63,636
Commercial income Adjusted operating profit 3,022 116 3,138 (10) 3,128
Management is required to make estimates in determining the amount and timing of recognition of Adjusting items 5 (287) (137) (424) 7 (417)
commercial income for some transactions with suppliers. In determining the amount of volume- Operating profit 2,735 (21) 2,714 (3) 2,711
related allowances recognised in any period, management estimates the probability that the Group
will meet contractual target volumes, based on historical and forecast performance. There is limited
Adjusted operating margin 4.6% 2.5% 4.5% 4.5%
estimation involved in recognising income for promotional and other allowances.
Management assesses its performance against the obligations conditional on earning the income, with Included within the UK & ROI segment is £155m (2024: £69m) of adjusted operating profit related to the
the income recognised either over time as the obligations are met, or recognised at the point when all Insurance and Money Services business. After adjusting items of £(14)m (2024: £(3)m), operating profit
obligations are met, dependent on the contractual requirements. Management views that the cost of is £141m (2024: £66m).
inventories sold (which is inclusive of commercial income) provides a consistent and complete
measure of the Group income statement impact of the overall supplier relationships. Continuing
operations
Management considers the best indicator of the estimation undertaken is by reference to commercial Central at actual
52 weeks ended 22 February 2025 UK & ROI Europe exchange
income balances not settled at the balance sheet date, and has therefore provided additional
At actual exchange rates Notes £m £m £m
disclosures of commercial income amounts reflected in the Group balance sheet. Refer to Note 21 for
Revenue 3 65,583 4,333 69,916
commercial income disclosures.
Less: Fuel sales (6,133) (147) (6,280)
Note 2 Segmental reporting Sales 59,450 4,186 63,636
The Group’s operating segments are determined based on the Group’s organisational structure and Adjusted operating profit 3,016 112 3,128
internal reporting to the Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM). The CODM has been determined Adjusting items 5 (287) (130) (417)
to be the Group Chief Executive, with support from the Executive Committee, as the function
Operating profit 2,729 (18) 2,711
primarily responsible for the allocation of resources to segments and assessment of performance
of the segments.
Adjusted operating margin 4.6% 2.6% 4.5%
As a result of the disposal of the Group’s Banking operations, the Group’s organisational structure and
Share of post-tax profit/(loss) of joint ventures and associates 14 (4)
internal reporting to the CODM have changed and Tesco Bank is no longer presented as a separate
Finance income 6 254
reportable segment. The remaining Insurance and Money Services business, previously part of the
Tesco Bank segment, is now reported as part of the UK business within the UK & ROI segment. The Finance costs 6 (746)
comparative segmental disclosures have been restated. Profit/(loss) before tax 2,215
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 151 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 149.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
Continuing UK & ROI Central Total
operations (restated(c)) Europe segments
UK & ROI Central at actual 52 weeks ended 24 February 2024 £m £m £m
52 weeks ended 24 February 2024 (restated*) Europe exchange Capital expenditure (including acquisitions through business
At actual exchange rates Notes £m £m £m
combinations):
Revenue 3 63,691 4,496 68,187
Property, plant and equipment(a) 1,099 99 1,198
Less: Fuel sales (6,536) (174) (6,710)
Goodwill and other intangible assets(b) 258 12 270
Sales 57,155 4,322 61,477
Depreciation and amortisation:
Adjusted operating profit 2,739 90 2,829
Property, plant and equipment (810) (86) (896)
Adjusting items 5 16 (24) (8)
Right of use assets (497) (46) (543)
Operating profit 2,755 66 2,821
Other intangible assets (243) (12) (255)
(a)-(b) Refer to previous table for footnotes.
Adjusted operating margin 4.3% 2.0% 4.1% (c) Comparatives have been restated to reflect the reclassification of Insurance and Money Services from the former Tesco Bank
Share of post-tax profit/(loss) of joint ventures and associates 14 6 segment to the UK & ROI segment.
Finance income 6 267 Note 3 Revenue
Finance costs 6 (805)
Profit/(loss) before tax 2,289 52 weeks 52 weeks
2025 2024
* Comparatives have been restated to reflect the reclassification of Insurance and Money Services from the former Tesco Bank Continuing operations Notes £m £m
segment to the UK & ROI segment. UK 53,619 51,718
Other segment information ROI 2,974 2,891
The tables below show the Group’s total capital expenditure, depreciation and amortisation for Booker 8,990 9,082
continuing operations:
UK & ROI 2 65,583 63,691
Central Total Hungary 1,445 1,512
UK & ROI Europe segments
52 weeks ended 22 February 2025 £m £m £m Czech Republic 1,471 1,554
Capital expenditure (including acquisitions through business Slovakia 1,417 1,430
combinations): Central Europe 2 4,333 4,496
Property, plant and equipment(a) 1,264 98 1,362 Total Group 2 69,916 68,187
Goodwill and other intangible assets(b) 332 10 342
Depreciation and amortisation:
Property, plant and equipment (850) (87) (937)
Right of use assets (501) (49) (550)
Other intangible assets (276) (11) (287)
(a) Includes £1m (2024: £nil) of property, plant and equipment acquired through business combinations. The prior year includes £65m
of land and buildings related to obtaining control of The Tesco Coral Limited Partnership.
(b) Includes £56m (2024: £17m) of goodwill and other intangible assets acquired through business combinations.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 152 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 150.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
Note 4 Operating expenses The table below shows the average number of employees by segment during the financial year.
Auditor’s remuneration
Average number of Average number of full-time
52 weeks 52 weeks employees equivalents
2025 2024 2025 2024 2025 2024
£m £m (restated(a)) (restated(a))
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for the audit of the 4.1 4.3 UK & ROI 318,756 313,033 208,650 203,107
Company and Group financial statements
Central Europe 22,352 22,359 20,490 20,529
The audit of the accounts of the Company’s subsidiaries 10.8 10.4
Total continuing operations 341,108 335,392 229,140 223,636
Total audit services 14.9 14.7
Audit-related assurance services 0.9 0.9
Discontinued operations(b) 2,363 2,126 2,253 2,023
Non-audit services 0.8 0.3
(a) Comparatives for UK & ROI have been restated to include employees of the continuing Insurance and Money Services business,
Total non-audit services 1.7 1.2 previously part of the Tesco Bank segment. Refer to Note 2.
Total auditor’s remuneration 16.6 15.9 (b) Discontinued operations for the current year represents the average for eight months to the date of disposal of Banking operations.
Audit-related assurance services of £0.9m (2024: £0.9m) comprise: review of the Group’s interim
report £0.6m (2024: £0.6m) and other services £0.3m (2024: £0.3m). In addition to the amounts shown
above, the auditor received fees of £0.2m (2024: £0.3m) for the audit of the main Group pension
schemes, and fees of £0.5m (2024: £0.4m) for the audit of joint ventures. Non-audit services are
subject to approval by the Chief Audit and Risk Officer and the Audit Committee. Additional
information on the non-audit services provided by the auditor is provided in the Audit Committee
report on page 88, including how objectivity and independence are safeguarded.
Employment costs, including Directors’ remuneration
52 weeks 52 weeks
2025 2024
Notes £m £m
Wages and salaries 7,473 6,999
Social security costs 609 548
Post-employment defined benefit charges 29 17 15
Post-employment defined contribution charges 29 454 415
Share-based payments expense 28 136 128
Termination benefits 37 56
Total 8,726 8,161
Less: Discontinued operations (110) (157)
Total continuing operations 8,616 8,004
Post-employment defined contribution charges include £181m (2024: £166m) of salaries paid as
pension contributions.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 153 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 151.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
Note 5 Adjusting items
Group income statement
Refer to Note 1 for further details regarding the assessment of items as adjusting.
52 weeks ended 22 February 2025
Profit/(loss) for the year included the following adjusting items:
Total adjusting Adjusting items
items included included within
Administrative within operating Finance income/ discontinued Total adjusting
Cost of sales expenses profit (costs) Taxation operations items
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Property transactions(a) 1 1 2 - - - 2
Net impairment (loss)/reversal of non-current assets(b) (274) (12) (286) - 57 - (229)
Restructuring(c) (38) (5) (43) - 11 - (32)
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets(d) - (76) (76) - 19 - (57)
Banking operations disposal costs(e) (8) (6) (14) - 4 - (10)
Net pension finance income/(costs)(f) - - - (32) 8 - (24)
Fair value remeasurements of financial instruments(f) - - - 76 (20) - 56
Total adjusting items from continuing operations (319) (98) (417) 44 79 - (294)
Adjusting items relating to discontinued operations(g) - - - - - (65) (65)
Total adjusting items (319) (98) (417) 44 79 (65) (359)
(a) Includes profit of £3m relating to the sale of four malls and the leaseback of the four associated stores in Central Europe. Refer to Note 8. In the prior year, predominantly related to the disposal of surplus properties generating a profit before tax of £63m.
(b) Refer to Note 15 for further details on net impairment (loss)/reversal of non-current assets.
(c) Provisions relating to operational restructuring changes announced as part of ‘Save to invest’, a multi-year programme which commenced in June 2022. The total cost of the programme recognised as adjusting since its start date is £(275)m (2024: £(232)m). Future cost
savings will not be reported within adjusting items.
(d) Amortisation of acquired intangibles relates to inorganic business combinations and does not reflect the Group’s ongoing trading performance.
(e) Costs incurred within the continuing Group in relation to the sale of Banking operations.
(f) Net pension finance costs and fair value remeasurements of financial instruments are included within adjusting items, as they can fluctuate significantly due to external market factors that are outside management’s control. Refer to Note 6 for details of finance income
and costs. Refer to Note 29 for details of pension schemes.
(g) Comprises fair value remeasurement of the disposal group of £(64)m (2024: £(732)m) (refer to Note 8), separation costs incurred within the disposal Group in relation to the sale of Banking operations of £(23)m (2024: £(11)m) and the associated tax of £22m (2024: £115m).
52 weeks ended 24 February 2024
Profit/(loss) for the year included the following adjusting items:
Total adjusting Adjusting items
items included included within
Administrative within operating Finance income/ discontinued Total adjusting
Cost of sales expenses profit (costs) Taxation operations items
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Property transactions 6 69 75 - (18) - 57
Disposal of China associate in a prior year - 9 9 - 23 - 32
Net impairment (loss)/reversal of non-current assets 35 (7) 28 - 38 - 66
Restructuring (45) (5) (50) - 12 - (38)
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets - (74) (74) - 18 - (56)
Disposal of subsidiary - 12 12 - - - 12
Banking operations disposal costs - (8) (8) - - - (8)
Net pension finance income/(costs) - - - (18) 5 - (13)
Fair value remeasurements of financial instruments - - - 38 (10) - 28
Total adjusting items from continuing operations (4) (4) (8) 20 68 - 80
Adjusting items relating to discontinued operations - - - - - (628) (628)
Total adjusting items (4) (4) (8) 20 68 (628) (548)
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 154 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 152.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
Note 5 Adjusting items continued Note 6 Finance income and costs
Group cash flow statement 52 weeks 52 weeks
The table below shows the impact of adjusting items on the Group cash flow statement: 2025 2024
Continuing operations Notes £m £m
Cash flows from Cash flows from Cash flows from
Finance income
operating activities investing activities financing activities
Interest income on bank balances 113 133
52 weeks 52 weeks 52 weeks 52 weeks 52 weeks 52 weeks
2025 2024 2025 2024 2025 2024 Interest income on short-term investments 119 117
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Interest income on loans to joint ventures and associates 7 2
Property transactions (a) - - 130 53 - -
Interest income on other investments 12 12
Disposal of subsidiaries(b) - - - 15 - -
Interest income on net investment in leases 1 2
Restructuring(c) (55) (100) - - - -
Finance income on reinsurance contracts held 2 1
Disposal of China associate - - - 9 - -
Total finance income 254 267
Acquisition of property - - - 7 - -
joint venture Finance costs
Special dividend - - - - - (1) GBP MTNs and loans (204) (190)
Disposal of Banking (26) - 586 - - - EUR MTNs (82) (113)
operations(d) USD bonds (16) (15)
Total adjusting items from (81) (100) 716 84 - (1) Interest expense on lease liabilities* (370) (373)
continuing operations Finance expense on insurance contracts issued (11) (7)
Adjusting items relating to - (1) (429) - - - Interest expense on bank overdrafts (97) (116)
discontinued operations(e)
Undrawn committed facility fee (5) (5)
Total (81) (101) 287 84 - (1)
Unwind of discount on provision (5) (6)
(a) Property transactions include £66m proceeds from the sale of four malls and the leaseback of the four associated stores in
Total finance costs before adjusting items (790) (825)
Central Europe, previously classified as assets held for sale. Refer to Note 8. In the prior year, £14m related to the sale of stores
in Poland not included in the sale of the corporate business. Fair value remeasurements of financial instruments 76 38
(b) In the prior year, the Group disposed of its Booker subsidiary Ritter-Courivaud Limited, part of the UK & ROI segment.
Net pension finance income/(costs) 29 (32) (18)
(c) Cash outflows relating to operational restructuring changes as part of the multi-year ‘Save to invest’ programme, which
commenced in June 2022. Total finance costs (746) (805)
(d) Net proceeds from the sale and costs incurred within the continuing Group in relation to the disposal of the Group’s Banking
operations. Refer to Note 8. Net finance costs (492) (538)
(e) The Banking operations disposal group held £429m in cash and cash equivalents at the date of disposal. Refer to Note 8 for the
* Interest expense on lease liabilities is presented net of £7m hedging impact (2024: £nil).
net book value of assets disposed.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 155 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 153.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
Note 7 Taxation Reconciliation of effective tax charge on adjusted profit before tax
Recognised in the Group income statement 52 weeks 52 weeks
2025 2024
52 weeks 52 weeks Continuing operations £m £m
2025 2024
Continuing operations £m £m Profit/(loss) before tax 2,215 2,289
Current tax (credit)/charge Exclude: Adjusting items 373 (12)
UK corporation tax 394 351 Adjusted profit before tax 2,588 2,277
Overseas tax 88 71 Tax credit/(charge) at the UK corporation tax rate of 25% (2024: 24.45%) (647) (557)
Adjustments in respect of prior years (18) (29) Effect of:
464 393 Non-qualifying depreciation (41) (39)
Deferred tax (credit)/charge Expenses not deductible (21) (23)
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 137 133 Unrecognised tax losses (3) -
Adjustments in respect of prior years 6 (4) Differences in overseas taxation rates 20 19
Change in tax rate 4 3
Adjustments in respect of prior years 12 10
147 132
Share of profits/(losses) of joint ventures and associates (1) 2
Total income tax (credit)/charge 611 525
Change in tax rate (6) (4)
Irrecoverable withholding tax (3) (1)
Reconciliation of effective tax charge Total income tax credit/(charge) before adjusting items (690) (593)
52 weeks 52 weeks Adjusted effective tax rate 26.7% 26.0%
2025 2024
Continuing operations £m £m
Profit/(loss) before tax 2,215 2,289 Tax on items credited directly to the Group statement of changes in equity
Tax credit/(charge) at the UK corporation tax rate of 25% (2024: 24.45%) (554) (560) 52 weeks 52 weeks
Effect of: 2025 2024
Continuing operations £m £m
Non-qualifying depreciation (41) (39)
Current tax credit/(charge) on:
Expenses not deductible (20) (24)
Share-based payments 14 -
Property items taxed on a different basis to accounting entries - 6
Deferred tax credit/(charge) on:
Net impairment (loss)/reversal of non-current assets (8) 46
Share-based payments 22 10
Unrecognised tax losses (3) -
Total tax on items credited/(charged) to the Group statement of changes 36 10
Differences in overseas taxation rates 11 15 in equity
Adjustments in respect of prior years 12 33
Share of profits/(losses) of joint ventures and associates (1) 2
Change in tax rate (4) (3)
Irrecoverable withholding tax (3) (1)
Total income tax credit/(charge) (611) (525)
Effective tax rate (statutory) 27.6% 22.9%
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 156 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 154.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
Note 7 Taxation continued
Tax relating to components of the Group statement of comprehensive income/(loss)
52 weeks 52 weeks
2025 2024
Continuing operations £m £m
Current tax credit/(charge) on:
Pensions - 159
Deferred tax credit/(charge) on:
Pensions (93) (95)
Fair value of movement on financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income (3) (4)
Finance income/expenses on insurance contracts issued and reinsurance contracts held - 1
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges 7 (5)
Total tax on items credited/(charged) to Group statement of comprehensive income/(loss) (89) 56
Deferred tax
The following are the major deferred tax (liabilities)/assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current and prior financial years, measured using the tax rates that are expected to
apply when the liability is settled, or the asset realised based on the tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. Deferred tax assets are recognised when it is probable
sufficient taxable profits will be available to utilise deductible temporary differences or unused tax losses. This assessment is based on the Group’s three-year long-term plan which is updated and approved
annually by the Board and is consistent with the Group’s longer-term viability statement and impairment assessments.
Property-related Acquired Post-employment Share-based Short-term timing Financial
items(a) intangibles benefits(b) payments differences Tax losses instruments Total
Continuing operations £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 25 February 2023 (434) (95) 255 39 63 146 (9) (35)
(Charge)/credit to the Group income statement (85) 18 2 - 11 (73) (5) (132)
(Charge)/credit to the Group statement of changes in equity - - - 10 - - - 10
(Charge)/credit to the Group statement of comprehensive income/(loss) - - (95) - - - (8) (103)
Discontinued operations 27 - - - - - (3) 24
Foreign exchange and other movements (1) - - - - - - (1)
At 24 February 2024 (493) (77) 162 49 74 73 (25) (237)
(Charge)/credit to the Group income statement (100) 19 2 (5) 8 (68) (3) (147)
(Charge)/credit to the Group statement of changes in equity - - - 22 - - - 22
(Charge)/credit to the Group statement of comprehensive income/(loss) - - (93) - - - 4 (89)
Acquisition - (5) - - - - - (5)
At 22 February 2025 (593) (63) 71 66 82 5 (24) (456)
(a) Property-related items are a deferred tax liability on accelerated tax depreciation of £610m (2024: £510m), deferred tax liability on rolled-over gains of £422m (2024: £424m), deferred tax asset on capital losses of £239m (2024: £242m) and deferred tax asset on IFRS 16
balances of £200m (2024: £199m).
(b) Post-employment benefits include a tax (charge)/credit to the Group statement of comprehensive income/(loss) relating to remeasurement gain/(loss). The closing deferred tax relates to a deferred tax asset on pension schemes in deficit or a deferred tax liability on
schemes in surplus if no withholding tax applies. Refer to Note 29 for further details.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 157 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 155.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances after offset: Note 8 Discontinued operations and assets classified as held for sale
The following table presents a breakdown of the assets and liabilities of disposal groups and
2025 2024 non-current assets classified as held for sale:
£m £m
Deferred tax assets 47 32
2025 2024
Deferred tax liabilities (503) (269)
Banking
(456) (237) Other* operations Other* Total
£m £m £m £m
Unrecognised deferred tax assets and liabilities Assets of the disposal group - 7,698 - 7,698
Deferred tax assets in relation to continuing operations have not been recognised in respect of the Non-current assets classified as held for sale 50 - 85 85
following items because it is not probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the Total assets of the disposal group and non-current 50 7,698 85 7,783
Group can utilise the benefits: assets classified as held for sale
Liabilities of the disposal group - (7,122) - (7,122)
2025 2024
£m £m Total net assets of the disposal group and 50 576 85 661
non-current assets classified as held for sale
Deductible temporary differences 40 38
Tax losses 180 180 * Other non-current assets classified as held for sale consist of properties in the UK (2024: UK and Central Europe) due to be sold
within one year. Due to the individual nature of each property, fair values are classified as Level 3 within the fair value hierarchy.
220 218
Assets classified as held for sale
During the year the Group sold four mall properties in Central Europe, leasing back four stores within
As at 22 February 2025, the Group has unused trading tax losses from continuing operations of
those sites. Net proceeds from the sale and leaseback transactions were £66m. As the sale and
£630m (2024: £881m) available for offset against future profits. A deferred tax asset has been
leaseback proceeds did not exceed the fair value of the stores sold, the proceeds are presented in
recognised in respect of £19m (2024: £310m) of such losses, with £nil (2024: £258m) arising in the UK,
the investing category in the Group cash flow statement. The profit on disposal was £3m, refer to
£nil (2024: £29m) in Hungary, £11m (2024: £11m) in USA and £8m (2024: £12m) in other jurisdictions.
Note 5. Refer to Note 13 for details on the leaseback of the stores.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the remaining overseas trading tax losses of
£611m (2024: £571m) due to the uncertainty of future taxable profits with £514m (2024: £532m) in the Disposal of Banking operations
Netherlands, £32m (2024: £33m) in Germany, £59m (2024: £nil) in Hungary and £6m (2024: £6m) in In February 2024, the Group agreed to sell its banking operations, comprising personal loans, credit
Slovakia. Capital losses of £89m (2024: £92m) in ROI have not been recognised as it is not expected cards, customer deposits, and associated operational capabilities (Banking operations). The related
they will be utilised. A deferred tax asset has not been recognised in respect of deductible temporary assets and liabilities were classified as held for sale in the prior year.
differences of £40m (2024: £38m) as it is not expected they will be utilised. Of these unrecognised tax
Upon classification as held for sale in the prior year, the Group recognised a loss of £(732)m on
losses and temporary differences, £70m (2024: £11m) will expire within five years and the remainder
remeasuring the disposal group to fair value less costs to sell. Of this loss, £(314)m was allocated to
are available indefinitely.
goodwill and other assets of the disposal group within the scope of the measurement requirements of
No deferred tax liability is recognised on temporary differences relating to the unremitted earnings IFRS 5 which were fully written off. The excess loss of £(418)m remaining was recognised as a reduction
of overseas subsidiaries and joint ventures of £4.1bn (2024: £4.1bn) as the Group is able to control the in the total assets of the disposal group, which primarily comprise loans and advances to customers
timing of the reversal of these temporary differences and it is probable that they will not reverse in measured under IFRS 9. In the current year and up until the date of disposal, an additional £(7)m
the foreseeable future. The deferred tax on unremitted earnings at 22 February 2025 is estimated impairment of non-current assets and excess loss of £(57)m were recognised, giving rise to a total loss
to be £8m (2024: £7m) which relates to taxes payable on repatriation and dividend withholding taxes on remeasuring the disposal group to fair value less costs to sell of £(64)m.
levied by overseas tax jurisdictions. UK tax legislation relating to company distributions provides for
In October 2024, the Group received approval from the High Court of Justice of England and Wales
exemption from tax for most repatriated profits, subject to certain exceptions.
for the disposal which subsequently completed on 1 November 2024. The net results of Banking
operations and the profit/(loss) on disposal are presented in profit/(loss) for the year from
discontinued operations in the Group income statement.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 158 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 156.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
Note 8 Discontinued operations and assets classified as held for sale continued The profit/(loss) on disposal of the Group’s Banking operations comprises the following:
Income statement of discontinued operations
2025
2025 2024 £m
Banking Banking Gross proceeds 614
operations operations
£m £m Costs to sell* (28)
Revenue 547 710 Proceeds less costs to sell 586
Operating costs (448) (637) Net book value of assets disposed
Operating profit(a) 99 73 Loans and advances to customers (8,071)
Net finance costs (1) (6) Derivative financial instruments (34)
Profit before tax 98 67 Trade and other receivables (87)
Taxation (24) (19) Cash and cash equivalents (429)
Profit after tax 74 48 Trade and other payables 38
Remeasurement of the disposal group to fair value less costs to sell(a)(b) (64) (732) Borrowings 550
Tax on remeasurement of the disposal group to fair value less costs to sell(c) 16 112 Provisions 17
Profit after tax of discontinued operations 26 (572) Lease liabilities 15
(a) Operating profit/(loss) of discontinued operations in the Group cash flow statement of £35m (2024: £(659)m) comprises operating Deposits from customers 6,926
profit above of £99m (2024: £73m) and fair value remeasurement of assets of the disposal group of £(64)m (2024: £(732)m). Derivative financial instruments 14
(b) Remeasurement of the disposal group to fair value less costs to sell includes £nil goodwill impairment (2024: £(211)m), £(7)m
remeasurements on non-current assets (2024: £(96)m), £(57)m loss in excess of the carrying amount of the non-current assets Excess loss on remeasurement of the disposal group 475
(2024: £(418)m), and in the prior year, £(7)m of costs already incurred in relation to the sale. This is treated as an adjusting item.
Net book value of assets disposed (586)
Refer to Note 5.
(c) Tax on remeasurement of the disposal group to fair value less costs to sell is included within adjusting items. Refer to Note 5. Profit/(loss) on disposal of Banking operations -
* Total costs associated with the sale of the Banking operations amounted to £(35)m, of which £(7)m was expensed in the prior
financial year.
Expected credit losses (ECLs) of the Banking operations disposal group
The opening ECL balance was £433m. During the period prior to disposal of the Group’s Banking
operations, there was a £(53)m net decrease in ECLs on loans and advances to customers, principally
in relation to write-offs and asset disposals. During that period, there were no material transfers
between the classification of loans based on the risk levels stages 1, 2 or 3. The total ECL balance of
£380m was derecognised on completion of the sale.
Cash flow statement of discontinued operations
2025 2024
Banking Banking
operations operations
£m £m
Net cash flows from operating activities 171 162
Net cash flows from investing activities (436) (22)
Net cash flows from financing activities (2) 548
Net cash flows from discontinued operations (267) 688
The total cash inflows of £157m presented in the investing category of the Group cash flow statement
in the ‘Disposal of Banking operations, net of cash disposed’ line comprise gross proceeds of £614m,
less cost incurred of £(28)m and cash and cash equivalents disposed of £(429)m.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 159 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 157.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
Note 9 Dividends Note 10 Earnings/(losses) per share and diluted earnings/(losses) per share
For the 52 weeks ended 22 February 2025 there were 83 million (2024: 79 million) potentially dilutive
2025 2024
share options and awards. As the Group has recognised a profit for the year from its continuing
Pence/share £m Pence/share £m
operations, dilutive effects have been considered in calculating diluted earnings per share.
Paid prior financial year final dividend(a) 8.25 576 7.05 506
Paid interim dividend(b) 4.25 289 3.85 271 52 weeks ended 22 February 2025 52 weeks ended 24 February 2024
Amounts recognised through equity as distributions 12.50 865 10.90 777 Dilutive share Dilutive share
to owners options and options and
Basic awards Diluted Basic awards Diluted
(Increase)/decrease in unclaimed dividends - (1) - -
Profit/(loss) (£m)
Paid 2021 special dividend - - 50.93 1
Continuing operations* 1,600 - 1,600 1,760 - 1,760
Dividends paid in the financial year 864 778
Discontinued operations 26 - 26 (572) - (572)
Total 1,626 - 1,626 1,188 - 1,188
Proposed final dividend at financial year end 9.45 637 8.25 581
Weighted average number 6,835 83 6,918 7,097 79 7,176
(a) Excludes £5m prior financial year final dividend waived (2024: £6m) and includes the write-back of unclaimed dividends and of shares (millions)
forfeited shares of £nil (2024: £4m).
(b) Excludes £2m interim dividend waived (2024: £2m).
Earnings/(losses) per share
The proposed final dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 9 April 2025 and is subject to (pence)
the approval of shareholders at the AGM. The proposed dividend has not been included as a liability as Continuing operations 23.41 (0.28) 23.13 24.80 (0.27) 24.53
at 22 February 2025. If approved by shareholders, it will be paid on 27 June 2025 to shareholders who Discontinued operations 0.38 - 0.38 (8.06) 0.09 (7.97)
are on the register of members at close of business on 16 May 2025.
Total 23.79 (0.28) 23.51 16.74 (0.18) 16.56
A dividend reinvestment plan (DRIP) is available to shareholders who would prefer to invest their
* Excludes profits/(losses) attributable to non-controlling interests of £4m (2024: £4m).
dividends in the shares of the Company. For those shareholders electing to receive the DRIP, the last
date for receipt of a new election is 6 June 2025. APM: Adjusted diluted earnings/(losses) per share
For all dividends, including the 2021 special dividend paid following the disposal of the Thai and 52 weeks 52 weeks
Continuing operations Notes 2025 2024
Malaysia businesses, the Group has a share forfeiture programme following the completion of a
Profit before tax (£m) 2,215 2,289
tracing and notification exercise to any shareholders who have not had contact with Tesco PLC over
the past 12 years, in accordance with the provisions set out in the Company’s Articles of Association. Exclude: Adjusting items (£m) 5 373 (12)
£nil (2024: £2m) of unclaimed dividends in relation to these shares have been adjusted for in retained Adjusted profit before tax (£m) 2,588 2,277
earnings. Refer to Note 30 for further details. Adjusted profit before tax attributable to the owners of the parent (£m)* 2,584 2,273
Taxation on adjusted profit before tax attributable to the owners of the 7 (690) (593)
parent (£m)
Adjusted profit after tax attributable to the owners of the parent (£m) 1,894 1,680
Basic weighted average number of shares (millions) 6,835 7,097
Adjusted basic earnings per share (pence) 27.71 23.67
Diluted weighted average number of shares (millions) 6,918 7,176
Adjusted diluted earnings per share APM (pence) 27.38 23.41
Refer to previous table for footnote.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 160 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 158.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
Note 11 Goodwill and other intangible assets
2025 2024
Other Other
Customer intangible Customer intangible
Goodwill Software(a) relationships assets(b) Total Goodwill Software(a) relationships assets(b) Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cost
Opening balance 4,515 1,837 718 383 7,453 4,785 2,034 718 384 7,921
Foreign currency translation (4) (5) - - (9) (8) (19) - (1) (28)
Additions - 285 - 1 286 - 275 - - 275
Acquired through business combinations 38 - 18 - 56 17 - - - 17
Reclassification - - - - - - (10) - - (10)
Transfer to disposal group classified as held for sale - - - - - (211) (266) - - (477)
Disposals - (398) - (11) (409) (68) (177) - - (245)
Closing balance 4,549 1,719 736 373 7,377 4,515 1,837 718 383 7,453
Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses
Opening balance 387 1,238 450 312 2,387 458 1,410 376 302 2,546
Foreign currency translation (2) (3) - - (5) (3) (17) - - (20)
Amortisation charge for the year(c) - 210 76 1 287 - 205 74 1 280
Impairment losses(d) - 35 - - 35 - 24 - 2 26
Reversal of impairment losses(d) - (8) - - (8) - (13) - - (13)
Reclassification - - - - - - (16) - 7 (9)
Transfer to disposal group classified as held for sale - - - - - - (183) - - (183)
Disposals - (395) - (11) (406) (68) (172) - - (240)
Closing balance 385 1,077 526 302 2,290 387 1,238 450 312 2,387
Net carrying value 4,164 642 210 71 5,087 4,128 599 268 71 5,066
(a) Software includes £576m (2024: £522m) net carrying value of internally generated development costs.
(b) Other intangible assets include pharmacy licences with a net carrying value of £28m (2024: £27m) and various other individually immaterial balances.
(c) Amortisation of customer relationships of £76m (2024: £74m) has been included within adjusting items and primarily relates to customer relationships recognised on the Booker acquisition in March 2018.
(d) Refer to Note 15.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 161 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 159.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
Note 12 Property, plant and equipment
2025 2024
Land and Land and
buildings(a) Other(b) Total buildings(a) Other(b) Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Cost
Opening balance 22,966 6,130 29,096 22,650 5,844 28,494
Foreign currency translation (129) (40) (169) (200) (69) (269)
Additions(c)(d) 504 857 1,361 445 753 1,198
Acquired through business combinations - 1 1 - - -
Reclassification (2) 2 - 10 32 42
Transfers (to)/from assets classified as held for sale (55) - (55) 161 8 169
Transfer to disposal group classified as held for sale - - - (10) (10) (20)
Disposals (190) (627) (817) (90) (428) (518)
Closing balance 23,094 6,323 29,417 22,966 6,130 29,096
Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses
Opening balance 7,969 3,906 11,875 7,780 3,852 11,632
Foreign currency translation (52) (26) (78) (76) (48) (124)
Depreciation charge for the year 464 473 937 449 450 899
Impairment losses(e) 292 119 411 236 95 331
Reversal of impairment losses(e) (197) (37) (234) (395) (61) (456)
Reclassification - - - (1) 39 38
Transfers (to)/from assets classified as held for sale (21) - (21) 58 3 61
Transfer to disposal group classified as held for sale - - - (9) (7) (16)
Disposals (120) (615) (735) (73) (417) (490)
Closing balance 8,335 3,820 12,155 7,969 3,906 11,875
Net carrying value(f) 14,759 2,503 17,262 14,997 2,224 17,221
Construction in progress included above(g) 155 361 516 109 280 389
(a) The estimated fair value of land and buildings is £15.0bn (2024: £15.0bn). Refer to Note 15 for details of the methodology applied to determine fair value.
(b) Other assets consist of fixtures and fittings with a net carrying value of £1,874m (2024: £1,679m), office equipment with a net carrying value of £269m (2024: £234m) and motor vehicles with a net carrying value of £360m (2024: £311m). Depreciation charge for the year is
£(306)m (2024: £(291)m), £(75)m (2024: £(69)m) and £(92)m (2024: £(90)m), respectively.
(c) Prior year includes £65m of land and buildings related to obtaining control of The Tesco Coral Limited Partnership, which was not impaired on acquisition.
(d) Includes £199m (2024: £107m) relating to store buybacks, direct store purchases and refits associated with both direct store purchases and business combinations.
(e) Refer to Note 15.
(f) Includes £3,128m (2024: £3,129m) of assets pledged as security for secured bonds (refer to Note 22) and £820m (2024: £829m) of property held as security in favour of the Tesco PLC Pension Scheme (refer to Note 29).
(g) Construction in progress does not include land.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 162 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 160.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
Note 13 Leases
Group as lessee
Lease liabilities represent rentals payable by the Group for certain retail, distribution and office properties and other assets such as motor vehicles. The leases have varying terms, purchase options, escalation
clauses and renewal rights. Purchase options and renewal rights, where they occur, are at market value. Escalation clauses are in line with market practices and include inflation-linked, fixed rates, resets to
market rents and hybrids of these.
Right of use assets
2025 2024
Land and buildings Other Total Land and buildings Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Net carrying value
Opening balance 5,365 113 5,478 5,387 113 5,500
Additions (including sale and leaseback transactions) 476 66 542 305 39 344
Acquired through business combinations 5 - 5 - - -
Depreciation charge for the year (512) (38) (550) (508) (36) (544)
Impairment losses(a) (223) (2) (225) (213) (1) (214)
Reversal of impairment losses(a) 130 - 130 131 - 131
Derecognition on acquisition of property joint venture - - - (17) - (17)
Transfer to disposal group classified as held for sale - - - (9) - (9)
Other movements(b) 190 (1) 189 289 (2) 287
Closing balance 5,431 138 5,569 5,365 113 5,478
(a) Refer to Note 15.
(b) Other movements include lease terminations, modifications and reassessments, foreign exchange, reclassifications between asset classes and entering into finance subleases.
Lease liabilities Amounts recognised in the Group income statement
The following tables show the discounted lease liabilities included in the Group balance sheet and a
52 weeks 52 weeks
maturity analysis of the contractual undiscounted lease payments. A reconciliation of the Group’s 2025 2024
opening to closing lease liabilities balance is presented in Note 32. Continuing operations £m £m
Interest expense on lease liabilities* 377 373
2025 2024
£m £m Variable payment expenses not included in lease liabilities - 1
Current 618 584 Expenses relating to short-term leases 24 26
Non-current 7,098 7,038 Expenses relating to leases of low value assets (excluding amounts 1 1
Total lease liabilities 7,716 7,622 already included in short-term leases above)
* Interest expense on lease liabilities is presented gross of £7m hedging impact (2024: £nil).
2025 2024
Sale and leaseback related to assets previously classified as held for sale
Maturity analysis – contractual undiscounted lease payments £m £m
During the year, the Group sold four mall properties previously classified as held for sale in Central
Within one year 995 944
Europe, leasing back four stores within those sites. Refer to Note 8 for details of the net proceeds and
Greater than one year but less than two years 973 928
profit from the transaction. The stores are being leased back over 30-year lease terms at market
Greater than two years but less than three years 940 903 rentals with options to extend. These store leases have resulted in lease liability additions of £23m.
Greater than three years but less than four years 896 872 The sale and leaseback transaction allows the Group to relinquish control over the malls while
Greater than four years but less than five years 855 831 continuing to operate the stores within those sites.
Greater than five years but less than 10 years 3,489 3,444
Greater than 10 years but less than 15 years 1,951 1,954
After 15 years 777 881
Total undiscounted lease payments 10,876 10,757
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 163 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 161.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
Amounts recognised in the Group cash flow statement Operating lease payments receivable maturity analysis
52 weeks 52 weeks 2025 2024
2025 2024 £m £m
£m £m Within one year 61 63
Total cash outflow for leases 980 1,000
Greater than one year but less than two years 35 33
Greater than two years but less than three years 28 30
Future possible cash outflows not included in the lease liability
Some leases contain break clauses or extension options to provide operational flexibility. Potential Greater than three years but less than four years 27 23
future undiscounted lease payments not included in the reasonably certain lease term, and hence Greater than four years but less than five years 18 23
not included in lease liabilities, total £13.4bn. Greater than five years but less than 10 years 30 33
Future increases or decreases in rentals linked to an index or rate (not arising on a sale and leaseback Greater than 10 years but less than 15 years 9 11
transaction) are not included in the lease liability until the change in cash flows takes effect. After 15 years 29 28
Approximately 76% (2024: 76%) of the Group’s lease liabilities are subject to inflation-linked rentals, of Total undiscounted operating lease payments receivable 237 244
which 89% (2024: 85%) have inflation caps, with a weighted average cap of 4.3% (2024: 4.3%). A further
17% (2024: 17%) are subject to rent reviews. Rental changes linked to inflation or rent reviews typically
Note 14 Group entities
occur on an annual or five-yearly basis. Of the inflation-linked leases with caps, 33% (2024: 31%) of the
lease liability value was hedged through index-linked swaps. Refer to Note 27. The Group consists of the ultimate Parent Company, Tesco PLC, and a number of subsidiaries, joint
ventures and associates held directly or indirectly by Tesco PLC. See pages 220 to 225 for a complete
The Group is committed to payments totalling £125m (2024: £181m) in relation to leases that have been list of Group entities.
signed but have not yet commenced.
Subsidiaries
Group as lessor The accounting year ends of the subsidiaries consolidated in these financial statements are on or
The Group leases out owned properties and sublets leased properties under operating and finance around 22 February 2025.
leases. Such properties include malls, mall units, stores, units within stores, distribution centres and
residential properties. Unconsolidated structured entities
In prior years, the Group sponsored a number of structured entities. The Group led the formation
Amounts recognised in the Group income statement of the entities and its name appears in the name of the entities and/or on the debt issued by the
52 weeks 52 weeks entities. The structured entities were set up to finance property purchases by some of the UK
2025 2024 property joint ventures in which the Group typically holds a 50% equity interest. The structured
Continuing operations £m £m entities obtain debt financing from third-party investors and lend the funds to these joint ventures,
Finance lease – interest income(a) 1 2 who use the funds to purchase the properties.
Operating lease – rental income(b) 100 96
The liabilities of the UK property joint ventures include the loans due to these structured entities.
(a) Comprises £1m (2024: £2m) of sublease interest income. The Group’s exposure to the structured entities is limited to the extent of the Group’s interests in
(b) Includes £28m (2024: £26m) of sublease rental income. the joint ventures. The liabilities of the structured entities are non-recourse to the Group.
Finance lease payments receivable
The Group concluded that it does not control, and therefore should not consolidate, these structured
The finance lease receivable (net investment in the lease) included in the Group balance sheet is
entities since it does not have power over the relevant activities of the structured entities, or
£23m (2024: £27m).
exposure to variable returns from these entities.
Consolidated structured entities
The Group has a number of financing structured entities controlled as a result of the acquisition of
former UK property joint ventures. Although none of the equity of these entities is owned by the
Group, the Group has rights to variable returns from its involvement with these entities and has the
ability to affect those returns through its power over them under contractual agreements. These
entities are controlled by the Group, and are therefore accounted for as subsidiaries. The financial
year ends of the financing structured entities align to the Group financial year end.
The Group previously had a number of securitisation structured entities established in connection
with Tesco Bank’s credit card securitisation transactions, which have been disposed of as part of
the Banking operations disposal group.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 164 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 162.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
Note 14 Group entities continued
Interests in joint ventures and associates
Principal joint ventures and associates
The Group’s principal joint ventures and associates are:
Nature of Business Share of issued share capital, loan Principal area
relationship activity capital and debt securities Country of incorporation of operation
Included in ‘UK property joint ventures’:
The Tesco Blue Limited Partnership Joint venture Property investment 50% England United Kingdom
The Tesco Passaic Limited Partnership Joint venture Property investment 50% England United Kingdom
The Tesco Navona Limited Partnership Joint venture Property investment 50% England United Kingdom
The Arena Unit Trust Joint venture Property investment 50% Jersey United Kingdom
Included in ‘Other joint ventures and associates’:
Tesco Mobile Limited Joint venture Telecommunications 50% England United Kingdom
Booker India Limited Joint venture Retail 49% India India
Trent Hypermarket Private Limited Joint venture Retail 50% India India
W23 Global GP LLP Associate Investment management 20% England International
The accounting period end dates of the joint ventures and associates consolidated in these financial statements range from 31 December 2024 to 22 February 2025. The accounting period end dates of joint
ventures and associates differ from those of the Group for commercial reasons and depend upon the requirements of the joint venture or associate partner(s) as well as those of the Group.
There are no significant restrictions on the ability of joint ventures and associates to transfer funds to the parents, other than those imposed by the Companies Act 2006 or equivalent local regulations.
The UK property joint ventures involve the Group partnering with third parties in carrying out some property investments in order to enhance returns from property and access funding, while reducing risks
associated with sole ownership. These property investments generally cover shopping centres and standalone stores. The Group enters into leases for some or all of the properties held in the joint ventures.
These leases provide the Group with some rights over alterations and adjacent land developments. In some cases, the Group has the ability to substitute properties in the joint ventures with alternative
properties of similar value, subject to strict eligibility criteria. In other cases the Group carries out property management activities for third-party rentals of shopping centre units.
The property investment activities are carried out in separate entities, usually partnerships or limited liability companies. The Group has assessed its ability to direct the relevant activities of these entities and
any impact on Group returns and concluded that the entities qualify as joint ventures since decisions regarding them require the unanimous consent of both equity holders. This assessment included not only
rights within the joint venture agreements, but also any rights within other contractual arrangements between the Group and the entities.
The Group made a number of judgements in arriving at this determination, the key ones being:
– since the provisions of the joint venture agreements require the relevant decisions impacting investor returns to be either unanimously agreed by both joint venturers at the same time, or in some cases to be
agreed sequentially by each venturer at different stages, there is joint decision making within the joint venture;
– since the Group’s leases are priced at fair value, and any rights embedded in the leases are consistent with market practice, they do not provide the Group with additional control over the joint ventures nor
do they infer an obligation by the Group to fund the settlement of liabilities of the joint ventures;
– any options to purchase the other joint venturers’ equity stakes are priced at market value, and only exercisable at future dates, hence they do not provide control to the Group at the current time;
– where the Group has a right to substitute properties in the joint ventures, the rights are strictly limited and are at fair value, hence do not provide control to the Group; and
– where the Group carries out property management activities for third-party rentals in shopping centres, these additional activities are controlled through joint venture agreements or lease agreements,
and do not provide the Group with additional powers over the joint venture.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 165 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 163.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
Summarised financial information for joint ventures and associates
The summarised financial information below reflects the amounts presented in the financial statements of the relevant joint ventures and associates, and not the Group’s share of those amounts.
These amounts have been adjusted to conform to the Group’s accounting policies where required. The summarised financial information for UK property joint ventures has been aggregated in order to
provide useful information to users without excessive detail, since these entities have similar characteristics and risk profiles largely based on their nature of activities and geographic market.
UK property joint ventures
2025 2024
£m £m
Summarised balance sheet
Non-current assets(a) 1,794 1,829
Current assets (excluding cash and cash equivalents) 8 8
Cash and cash equivalents 12 12
Current liabilities(b) (68) (65)
Non-current liabilities(b) (2,247) (2,265)
Net liabilities (501) (481)
Group’s share in ownership 50% 50%
Group’s share of net liabilities (251) (241)
Deferred property profits offset against carrying amounts (57) (56)
Cumulative unrecognised losses(c) 134 138
Cumulative unrecognised hedge reserves(c) 174 159
Carrying amount - -
Summarised income statement
Revenue 184 188
Profit and total comprehensive income(d) - -
Dividend received by the Group(e) 1 7
(a) The non-current asset balances of UK property joint ventures are reflected at historical depreciated cost to conform to the Group’s accounting policies. The aggregate of the fair values in the financial statements of the UK property joint ventures is £2,670m (2024: £2,717m).
(b) The current and non-current liabilities of UK property joint ventures largely comprise loan balances of £(1,939)m (2024: £(1,985)m) and derivative swap balances of £(347)m (2024: £(317)m) entered into to hedge the cash flow variability exposures of the joint ventures.
(c) £6m of profit (2024: £11m) and £15m of increase (2024: £15m of increase) in the fair values of derivatives arising from these entities have been included in cumulative unrecognised losses and cumulative unrecognised hedge reserves respectively.
(d) Profit and total comprehensive income includes £62m (2024: £59m) of interest cost.
(e) As the carrying value of the joint ventures is £nil, the dividends received are recognised directly in the income statement and presented in the Share of post-tax profits of joint ventures and associates.
As at 22 February 2025, the Group had £97m (2024: £96m) loans to UK property joint ventures.
Other joint ventures and associates
The Group also has interests in a number of individually immaterial joint ventures and associates excluding UK property joint ventures.
Joint ventures Associates
2025 2024 2025 2024
£m £m £m £m
Aggregate carrying amount of individually immaterial joint ventures and associates 105 102 5 -
Group’s share of losses for the year (5) (1) - -
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 166 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 164.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
Note 15 Impairment of non-current assets
Impairment losses and reversals
Goodwill
There was no impairment of goodwill balances in the current year (2024: £211m related to the sale of the Group’s Banking operations).
Other non-current assets
The tables below summarise the Group’s pre-tax impairment losses and reversals on other non-current assets, aggregated by segment due to the large number of individually immaterial cash-generating units.
This includes any (losses)/reversals recognised immediately prior to classifying an asset or disposal group as held for sale but excludes any changes in fair value less costs to sell post classification as held for
sale. There were no impairment losses or reversals in the year (2024: £nil) with respect to investments in joint ventures and associates. Impairments are typically treated as adjusting where there is significant
volatility arising from inputs outside the control of management.
UK & ROI Central Europe Total Net
Impairment Impairment Impairment Impairment Impairment Impairment Impairment
loss reversal loss reversal loss reversal (loss)/reversal
52 weeks ended 22 February 2025 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Group balance sheet
Other intangible assets (35) 8 - - (35) 8 (27)
Property, plant and equipment (336) 233 (75) 1 (411) 234 (177)
Right of use assets (165) 125 (60) 5 (225) 130 (95)
Investment property - 1 - - - 1 1
Total impairment (loss)/reversal of other non-current assets (536) 367 (135) 6 (671) 373 (298)
Group income statement
Cost of sales(a) (517) 360 (134) 5 (651) 365 (286)
Administrative expenses(b) (19) 7 (1) 1 (20) 8 (12)
Total impairment (loss)/reversal from continuing operations (536) 367 (135) 6 (671) 373 (298)
(a) Of which £(274)m is adjusting (2024: £35m).
(b) Of which £(12)m is adjusting (2024: £(7)m).
UK & ROI Central Europe Total Net
Impairment Impairment Impairment Impairment Impairment Impairment Impairment
loss reversal loss reversal loss reversal (loss)/reversal
52 weeks ended 24 February 2024 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Group balance sheet
Other intangible assets (26) 13 - - (26) 13 (13)
Property, plant and equipment (306) 449 (25) 7 (331) 456 125
Right of use assets (187) 122 (27) 9 (214) 131 (83)
Investment property - - (1) - (1) - (1)
Total impairment (loss)/reversal of other non-current assets (519) 584 (53) 16 (572) 600 28
Group income statement
Cost of sales(a) (518) 584 (46) 15 (564) 599 35
Administrative expenses(b) (1) - (7) 1 (8) 1 (7)
Total impairment (loss)/reversal from continuing operations (519) 584 (53) 16 (572) 600 28
Refer to previous table for footnotes.
The net impairment loss is primarily due to increases in discount rates, as a result of the continued upward trend in government bond rates, as well as future cost pressures. The gross non-current asset
impairment losses and reversals largely reflect normal fluctuations expected from store-level performance, as well as any specific store closures.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 167 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 165.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
Net carrying value of non-current assets UK & ROI Total continuing
The net carrying values of other non-current assets and the recoverable amounts of impaired other (restated(d)) Central Europe operations
non-current assets, for which an impairment loss has been recognised or reversed, have been At 24 February 2024 £m £m £m
aggregated by segment due to the large number of individually immaterial cash-generating units. Net carrying value
Other intangible assets 905 33 938
UK & ROI Central Europe Total Property, plant and equipment 15,755 1,466 17,221
At 22 February 2025 £m £m £m
Right of use assets 5,039 439 5,478
Net carrying value
Investment property 15 9 24
Other intangible assets 892 31 923
Property, plant and equipment 15,951 1,311 17,262 Other non-current assets 21,714 1,947 23,661
Goodwill(a) 4,128 - 4,128
Right of use assets 5,094 475 5,569
Investments in joint ventures and associates(b) 102 - 102
Investment property 15 9 24
Net carrying value of non-current assets 25,944 1,947 27,891
Other non-current assets 21,952 1,826 23,778
Goodwill(a) 4,164 - 4,164 Recoverable amount of impaired other non-current
assets for which an impairment loss has been
Investments in joint ventures and associates(b) 110 - 110
recognised or reversed, supported by:
Net carrying value of non-current assets 26,226 1,826 28,052 Value in use 3,284 143 3,427
Recoverable amount of impaired other non-current Fair value less costs of disposal(c) 1,531 216 1,747
assets for which an impairment loss has been
4,815 359 5,174
recognised or reversed, supported by:
Value in use 2,703 145 2,848 (a)-(c) Refer to previous table for footnotes.
(d) Comparatives have been restated to reflect the reclassification of Insurance and Money Services from the former Tesco Bank
Fair value less costs of disposal(c) 1,570 357 1,927 segment to the UK & ROI segment. Refer to Note 2.
4,273 502 4,775 Impairment methodology
(a) Goodwill of £4,164m (2024: £4,128m) consists of UK £3,702m (2024: £3,664m), dunnhumby £141m (2024: £142m), money services Cash-generating units
£171m (2024: £171m), insurance £118m (2024: £118m) and ROI £32m (2024: £33m). For impairment testing of other intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, right of use assets
(b) The carrying value of the Group’s investments includes Trent Hypermarket Private Limited £60m (2024: £63m).
and investment property, the Group treats each store as a separate cash-generating unit.
(c) Due to the individual nature of each property, fair values are classified as Level 3 within the fair value hierarchy. Certain store
cash-generating units are supported by fair value less costs of disposal where their current use is for trading. This use is dunnhumby, insurance and money services each represent separate cash-generating units.
consistent with the Group’s property strategy and expected future investment in these store cash-generating units.
The Group allocates goodwill to groups of cash-generating units based on the lowest level at which
goodwill is monitored by management. Each country represents a group of cash-generating units for the
Group’s retail operations. dunnhumby, insurance and money services each represent separate groups.
The recoverable amount of each store cash-generating unit is the higher of its value in use and its fair
value less costs of disposal. The recoverable amount of a group of cash-generating units to which
goodwill has been allocated is determined based on value in use calculations.
Central assets such as distribution centres and associated costs are allocated to store cash-generating
units based on level of use, estimated with reference to sales. Urban fulfilment centres and associated
costs that are part of a store are included in the store cash–generating unit. Standalone customer
fulfilment centres and associated costs are each treated as a separate cash-generating unit.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 168 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 166.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
Note 15 Impairment of non-current assets continued Insurance and Money Services
Value in use is calculated by discounting post-tax free cash flows. Cash flow projections are based on
Value in use
the three-year internal forecasts approved by the Board. The forecasts are extrapolated to five years
Retail
based on management’s expectations and beyond five years based on estimated long-term average
Estimates for value in use calculations include discount rates, long-term growth rates, expected
growth rates. The long-term growth rates are based on inflation and GDP growth forecasts by
changes to future cash flows, including volumes and prices, and the probabilities assigned to cash flow
recognised bodies. The post-tax discount rate is the cost of equity, which is calculated using the
scenarios. Estimates are based on past experience and expectations of future changes in the market,
capital asset pricing model. The Group engages independent valuation specialists to determine
including the prevailing economic climate and global economy, competitor activity, market dynamics,
appropriate discount rates. Risk-free rates are based on government bond rates and equity risk
changing customer behaviours, structural challenges facing retail and the resilience afforded by the
premia and equity betas are based on data from recognised bodies.
Group’s operational scale.
Cash flow projections are based on the Group’s three-year internal forecasts, the results of which are Fair value less costs of disposal
Fair values of owned properties are determined with regard to the market rent for the stores or for
reviewed by the Board. The forecasts include best estimate assumptions on inflation, which differ by
alternative uses with investment yields appropriate to reflect the physical characteristics of the
both country and revenue and cost categories. These cash flows are then extrapolated to five years
property, location, performance, infrastructure, energy efficiency rating, redevelopment potential
based on management’s expectations, and beyond five years based on estimated long-term average
and other factors. Fair values of leased properties are determined with regard to the discounted
growth rates. Long-term growth rates are based on inflation forecasts by recognised bodies.
market rent for the property over the remaining period of the lease, reflecting the condition and
Group-level cash flow forecasts are allocated to store-level cash-generating units based on their
location of the property and the local rental market, adjusted for a suitable void period. Fair values of
relative current year actual sales performance, after adjusting for one-off cash flows affecting
the Group’s properties were determined with the assistance of independent professional valuers where
particular stores.
appropriate. Costs of disposal are estimated based on past experience in each geographical region.
The Group applies an expected cash flow approach by probability-weighting different cash flow
scenarios. The greatest probability weighting is applied to the cash flows derived from the three-year Investments in joint ventures and associates
The recoverable values of investments in joint ventures and associates are estimated taking into
internal forecasts. One downside scenario takes account of the risks presented by ongoing geopolitical
account forecast cash flows, equity valuations of comparable entities and/or recent transactions
events triggering global supply chain challenges and resurgent inflation, leading to weak consumer
for comparable businesses.
confidence and further intensifying competition in the sector. A second downside scenario takes
account of climate change impacts. These are consistent with the viability statement scenarios (see
the Longer term viability statement in the Strategic report). The viability statement scenarios reflect
‘severe but plausible’ risks, to which management applies probability weightings in order to reflect
management’s best estimate of future economic conditions. There is also an upside scenario which
assumes a moderate outperformance of the three-year internal forecasts.
In addition to the climate change scenario included within the probability-weighted cash flows,
the Group incorporates other climate change related assumptions into the impairment modelling,
including, but not limited to, investments in technology to aid the Group’s net zero commitments,
the costs associated with replacing end-of-life assets with more environmentally-friendly alternatives,
and assumptions over the cash flow profile of the Group’s fuel business.
Pre-tax nominal discount rates that reflect the current market assessment of the time value of money
are derived from the Group’s post-tax weighted average cost of capital, adjusted for specific risks
relating to each geographical region or cash-generating unit for which the cash flows have not been
adjusted. The Group engages independent valuation specialists to determine appropriate discount
rates. Risk-free rates are based on government bond rates, adjusted for each geographical region,
and equity risk premia and equity betas are based on data from recognised bodies. The capital asset
pricing model is used to calculate the cost of equity.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 169 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 167.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
Key assumptions and sensitivity
Key assumptions
For value in use calculations, the key assumptions to which the recoverable amounts are most sensitive are discount rates, long-term growth rates and future cash flows (incorporating sales volumes, prices
and costs). For fair value less costs of disposal calculations, the key assumption is property fair values.
The discount rates and long-term growth rates relating to the goodwill carrying values that are The discount rates and long-term growth rates for the Group’s portfolio of store cash-generating
significant to the Group’s total goodwill are: units, aggregated by segment due to the large number of individually immaterial store cash-generating
units, are:
UK UK & ROI Central Europe
2025 2024 2025 2024 2025 2024
% % % % % %
Pre-tax discount rates 9.1 8.6 Pre-tax discount rates 8.2-9.1 7.8-8.5 8.9-12.9 8.2-12.6
Post-tax discount rates 6.8 6.4 Post-tax discount rates 6.8-7.2 6.4-6.8 7.0-8.5 6.5-8.3
Long-term growth rates 2.0 2.0 Long-term growth rates 2.0 2.0 2.0-3.0 1.8-3.1
Sensitivity
The Group has carried out sensitivity analyses on the reasonably possible changes in key assumptions in the impairment tests for (a) the goodwill carrying values that are significant compared to the Group’s
total goodwill and (b) for its portfolio of store cash-generating units.
(a) Neither a reasonably possible increase of 1.0%pt in discount rates, a 5.0% decrease in future cash flows nor a 0.5%pt decrease in long-term growth rates would indicate impairment in the goodwill carrying
values that are significant compared to the Group’s total goodwill.
(b) While there is not a significant risk of an adjustment to the carrying amount of any one store cash-generating unit that would be material to the Group as a whole in the next financial year, the table below
summarises the reasonably possible changes in key assumptions which most impact the impairment of the Group’s entire portfolio of store cash-generating units, presented in aggregate due to the large
number of individually immaterial store cash-generating units. For the probability-weighted cash flow scenarios, the impairment is most sensitive to the downside scenario relating to geopolitical and global
supply issues (weighting 6.5%). Impairment is not highly sensitive to the climate or upside scenarios. The reasonably possible change below applies the corresponding change to the base scenario.
2025
Key assumption Reasonably possible change Impact on impairment £m
Post-tax discount rates* Increase of 1.0%pt for each geographic region Increase (342)
Decrease of 1.0%pt for each geographic region Decrease 316
Future cash flows Increase of 5.0% for each geographic region Decrease 138
Decrease of 5.0% for each geographic region Increase (142)
Long-term growth rates Increase of 0.5%pt for each geographic region Decrease 94
Decrease of 0.5%pt for each geographic region Increase (92)
Property fair values Increase of 10.0% for each geographic region Decrease 190
Decrease of 10.0% for each geographic region Increase (200)
Geopolitical and global supply downside scenario weighting Increase of 5.0%pt for each geographic region Increase (127)
Decrease of 2.5%pt for each geographic region Decrease 63
* Sensitivities are applied to post-tax discount rates used to derive the pre-tax discount rates.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 170 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 168.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
Note 16 Other investments
2025 2024
Fair value Fair value
Fair value through other Fair value through other
At amortised through comprehensive At amortised through comprehensive
cost(a) profit/loss income Total cost(a) profit/loss income Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Investments in debt instruments(b)(c) 196 - 855 1,051 1,033 - 682 1,715
Investments in equity instruments - - 19 19 - - 19 19
Property fund and other investments(d) - 15 - 15 - 18 - 18
Other investments 196 15 874 1,085 1,033 18 701 1,752
Of which:
Current 7 15 129 151 81 17 108 206
Non-current 189 - 745 934 952 1 593 1,546
196 15 874 1,085 1,033 18 701 1,752
(a) The ECLs in the year are immaterial (2024: immaterial).
(b) Investments in debt instruments at amortised cost includes secured bond assets of £192m (2024: £196m) related to the purchase of debt held in UK property joint ventures. Included within Investments in debt instruments at amortised cost at 24 February 2024 was
£832m which the Group sold prior to the sale of Banking operations.
(c) Investments in debt instruments held at fair value through other comprehensive income primarily relate to £679m (2024: £555m) of fixed-interest corporate bonds and £168m (2024: £118m) of government-backed investment securities held in the Insurance business.
(d) Includes £15m (2024: £17m) of property fund investments in the Insurance business.
Note 17 Inventories
2025 2024
£m £m
Goods held for resale 2,765 2,632
Development properties 3 3
2,768 2,635
Goods held for resale are net of commercial income. Refer to Note 21.
Cost of inventories from continuing operations recognised as an expense for the 52 weeks ended 22 February 2025 was £50,920m (52 weeks ended 24 February 2024: £50,191m). In addition, inventory losses
and provisions from continuing operations recognised as an expense for the 52 weeks ended 22 February 2025 were £1,440m (52 weeks ended 24 February 2024: £1,355m).
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 171 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 169.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
Note 18 Trade and other receivables The tables below present the ageing of receivables and related allowances for expected credit losses:
2025 2024 Up to six Six to 12 Greater than
£m £m months past months past 12 months
Trade receivables 652 576 Not past due due due past due Total
At 22 February 2025 £m £m £m £m £m
Prepayments 136 129
Trade receivables 623 49 6 8 686
Accrued income(a) 243 230
Other receivables 150 17 10 27 204
Other receivables(b) 183 274
Trade and other receivables 773 66 16 35 890
Amounts owed by joint ventures and associates(c) 154 176
Total trade and other receivables 1,368 1,385
Allowance for expected credit losses:
Of which:
At the beginning of the year (22) (5) (5) (27) (59)
Current 1,210 1,349
(Increase)/decrease in allowance, including 3 (3) 1 2 3
Non-current 158 36 recoveries, (charged)/released to the
1,368 1,385 Group income statement
(a) Accrued income includes contract assets of £67m (2024: £25m) including items relating to commission income on certain Amounts written off 1 - - - 1
insurance policies renewals managed and underwritten by a third party. The ECLs were immaterial as at 22 February 2025 At the end of the year (18) (8) (4) (25) (55)
(2024: immaterial).
(b) Consists of individually immaterial balances.
(c) ECLs on amounts owed by joint ventures and associates are immaterial (2024: immaterial). Refer to Note 31. Up to six Six to 12 Greater than
months past months past 12 months
Trade receivables include commercial income. Refer to Note 21. Trade receivables are generally
Not past due due due past due Total
non interest-bearing. Credit terms vary by country and the nature of the debt, ranging from seven At 24 February 2024 £m £m £m £m £m
to 120 days (2024: seven to 60 days). Trade receivables 540 62 6 9 617
Other receivables 242 17 6 27 292
Trade and other receivables 782 79 12 36 909
Allowance for expected credit losses:
At the beginning of the year (24) (6) (6) (26) (62)
(Increase)/decrease in allowance, including 1 1 1 (1) 2
recoveries, (charged)/released to the
Group income statement
Amounts written off 1 - - - 1
At the end of the year (22) (5) (5) (27) (59)
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 172 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 170.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
Note 19 Cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments Contract liabilities represent the consideration received for performance obligations not yet satisfied,
predominantly in relation to Clubcard points. The majority of the revenue deferred at the current
Cash and cash equivalents
financial year end will be recognised in the following financial year.
2025 2024
£m £m Supplier financing
Cash at bank and on hand 2,190 2,300 Suppliers can choose whether to access supplier financing arrangements, which are provided by
different third-party banks in different countries. Commercial requirements, including payment terms
Short-term deposits 65 40
or the price paid for goods, do not depend on whether a supplier chooses to access such
Cash and cash equivalents in the Group balance sheet 2,255 2,340 arrangements. The arrangements support the Group’s suppliers by giving them the option to receive
Bank overdrafts (856) (812) early payment from the banks in advance of the Group’s normal payment terms, often at a lower cost
Cash and cash equivalents in the Group cash flow statement 1,399 1,528 than they could obtain themselves.
The funding cost is set by the provider banks but based on Tesco’s credit risk and the appropriate
Short-term investments
country risk premium. If suppliers choose not to access early payment, the provider banks pay the
2025 2024 suppliers on the Group’s normal payment terms. The Group pays the provider banks on the Group’s
£m £m normal payment terms, regardless of whether the supplier has chosen to access funding early.
Money market funds, deposits and similar instruments 2,223 2,128
The Group currently offers supplier financing arrangements in the UK, Republic of Ireland and Asia.
Cash and cash equivalents include £26m (2024: £30m) of restricted amounts mainly relating to The Group’s normal payment terms range from five–90 days (2024: five–90 days) and are dependent
unclaimed dividends, the Group’s pension schemes and employee benefit trust. on the country, product category and volume of the Group’s annual purchases from the supplier.
Shorter payment terms are provided for certain perishable goods and where the Group’s annual
Note 20 Trade and other payables purchases from the supplier are lower than a set threshold in each country. Payment terms are the
same regardless of whether a supplier participates in a supplier financing arrangement.
2025 2024
£m £m There were no material business combinations or foreign exchange differences in the year relating to
Trade payables 6,692 6,644 amounts owed under supplier financing arrangements (2024: none).
Not subject to supplier financing arrangements 5,608 5,598
Note 21 Commercial income
Subject to supplier financing arrangements(a) 1,084 1,046
Below are the commercial income balances included within inventories and trade and other
Other taxation and social security 504 434
receivables, or netted against trade and other payables.
Other payables(b)(c) 1,849 1,864
Amounts payable to joint ventures and associates(d) 7 7 2025 2024
£m £m
Accruals 943 931
Current assets
Contract liabilities 409 423
Inventories (14) (12)
Total trade and other payables 10,404 10,303
Trade and other receivables
Of which:
Trade/other receivables 110 86
Current 10,364 10,264
Accrued income 142 136
Non-current 40 39
Current liabilities
10,404 10,303
Trade and other payables
(a) Trade payables include £740m (2024: £780m) that suppliers have chosen to early-fund. Trade payables 173 138
(b) Other payables include £943m (2024: £877m) of goods and services not for resale payables, of which £782m (2024: £752m) is not
subject to supplier financing arrangements and £161m (2024: £125m) is subject to supplier financing arrangements. Other payables
include £88m (2024: £73m) that suppliers have chosen to early-fund.
(c) Other payables include £757m (2024: £779m) of staff payables. The remaining balances within other payables are individually
immaterial.
(d) Refer to Note 31.
Trade and other payables are net of commercial income. Refer to Note 21.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 173 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 171.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
Note 22 Borrowings (a) Bank loans and overdrafts includes £856m (2024: £812m) of bank overdrafts. £851m (2024: £806m) is held under a notional pooling
arrangement which does not meet the criteria to be presented net of cash on the balance sheet. Refer to Note 19.
Borrowings are classified as current and non-current based on their scheduled repayment date, and (b) These notes were redeemed on their scheduled call date in July 2024.
not their maturity date. Repayments of principal amounts are classified as current if the repayment is (c) The bonds are secured by a charge over the property, plant and equipment held within The Tesco Property Limited Partnership,
scheduled to be made within one year of the balance sheet date. The Tesco Atrato Limited Partnership, The Tesco Sarum Limited Partnership and The Tesco Dorney Limited Partnership
respectively, all of which are 100% owned subsidiaries of Tesco PLC. The carrying amounts of assets pledged as security for
secured bonds is £807m, £1,198m, £857m and £266m (2024: £810m, £1,197m, £854m and £268m) respectively. £60m (2024: £55m)
2025 2024 is the total principal repayment due within the next 12 months and the remainder is payable in quarterly instalments until the
Par value Maturity £m £m maturity date.
(d) These bonds are redeemable at par, indexed for increases in the RPI over the life of the MTN. However, for the LPI-linked bond,
Bank loans and overdrafts(a) - - 882 838
the maximum indexation of the principal in any one year is 5%, with a minimum of 0%.
Tesco Bank Senior MREL Notes(b) £145m Jul 2025 - 143 (e) The sustainability-linked bonds are linked to the Group’s KPI for Group Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions reduction (Scope 1 and 2,
Secured bonds(c) i i n n a tC c O o 2 u e p ) o to n r s e te d p u c u e p t f h o e r s t e h e e m pe is r s io io d n s s t b a y r t 6 in 0 g % a b ft y e 2 r 0 th 2 e 5 / in 2 t 6 e w re it s h t r p e a s y p m e e c n t t t o fo a ll o 2 w 01 in 5 g / 1 t 6 h e b a r s e e p l o in r e t . in N g o o t f a t c h h e i e ta vi r n g g e t t h n e o t t a b r e g i e n t g w re o a u c ld h r e e d s . ult
5.5457% Secured Bond £169m Feb 2029 162 195
6.067% Secured Bond £200m Feb 2029 197 196
SONIA + 1.3193% Secured Bond £50m Feb 2029 49 49
6.0517% Secured Bond £247m Oct 2039 304 321
5.6611% Secured Bond £277m Oct 2041 353 366
5.4111% Secured Bond £178m Jul 2044 152 155
Unsecured bonds
Fixed rate bonds
2.5% MTN €473m Jul 2024 - 410
2.5% MTN £400m May 2025 405 390
0.875% MTN €750m May 2026 624 643
6% MTN £38m Dec 2029 42 42
2.75% MTN £450m Apr 2030 380 369
4.25% MTN €500m Feb 2031 447 454
5.5% MTN £67m Jan 2033 75 76
5.13% MTN £350m May 2034 356 -
5.5% MTN £250m Feb 2035 253 258
6.15% USD Bond $355m Nov 2037 341 346
4.875% MTN £14m Mar 2042 14 14
5.125% MTN €147m Apr 2047 125 206
5.2% MTN £14m Mar 2057 14 14
LPI and RPI-linked bonds(d)
3.322% LPI MTN £210m Nov 2025 429 415
1.982% RPI MTN £196m Mar 2036 397 382
Sustainability-linked bonds(e)
1.875% MTN £400m Nov 2028 400 399
0.375% MTN €750m Jul 2029 549 538
6,950 7,219
Of which:
Current 1,861 1,536
Non-current 5,089 5,683
6,950 7,219
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 174 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 172.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
Note 23 Provisions The expected undiscounted ageing of property provisions as at 22 February 2025:
Legal and Operational Current 1 to 5 years 6 to 10 years 11 to 15 years Over 15 years Total
Property Restructuring regulatory insurance Other £m £m £m £m £m £m
provisions provisions provisions provisions provisions Total
Property provisions 42 38 35 21 222 358
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At 24 February 2024 204 53 67 152 5 481
Restructuring provisions
Foreign currency translation (1) - - (1) - (2)
Restructuring provisions primarily relate to expected employee costs and are expected to be fully
Acquired through business 1 - - - - 1 utilised in the following financial year ending 28 February 2026. The provision is calculated in line with
combinations
the expected settlement costs of impacted employees and excludes future operating costs.
Amount released in the year (10) (2) (8) (23) (1) (44)
Legal and regulatory provisions
Amount provided in the year 11 51 25 73 1 161
Legal and regulatory provisions contain balances in relation to either ongoing or expected legal
Amount utilised in the year (10) (60) (5) (61) - (136) proceedings against the Group, or for costs associated with regulatory matters and/or breaches.
Unwinding of discount 5 - - - - 5 Due to the nature of legal and regulatory matters, including unpredictable timings of legal cases or
At 22 February 2025 200 42 79 140 5 466 regulatory investigations, there is often uncertainty as to if or when provisions will be fully utilised.
Operational insurance provisions
2025 2024 Insurance provisions relate to outstanding liabilities from public and employer’s liability and third-party
£m £m motor claims across the Group’s trading operations, separate to the Tesco Underwriting insurance
Current 300 306 balances in Note 24. Provisions relate to claims arising from incidents reported prior to the reporting
Non-current 166 175 date, including an allowance for those currently incurred but not reported. Amounts are measured
466 481 considering claims history, including claims volume and average cost of claims, with assessment and
projection by third-party actuaries. Releases in the year primarily relate to improved estimates of
Provisions are discounted where material based on the relevant risk-free rate and are risk-adjusted future outflows from revised actuarial valuations. The balance as at the financial year end is expected
through adjusting the cash flow estimates. Refer to Note 15 for details of how risk-free rates are to be materially utilised within three years from the reporting date.
derived. Where material, provisions are discounted based on country-specific nominal risk-free rates, Other provisions
with a weighted average risk-free rate of 5.1% (2024: 4.3%). Other provisions balances relate to individually immaterial provisions that do not fall into any of the
Property provisions other categories.
Property provisions comprise onerous contracts related to vacant properties, and decommissioning,
dilapidations and remediation works provisions.
Dilapidations are recognised where there is a present obligation to repair and restore leased
properties to their pre-occupancy state at the end of the lease term. The provision is based on best
estimates for individual properties, with reference to previous experience and size of leased property,
or specific agreements with the landlord where relevant. The term is measured in accordance with
the outstanding length of leases or the expected timing of specific obligations.
Onerous contract provisions are recognised where the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations
under the contract exceed the economic benefits expected to be received under it. The timing of
provisions is determined by reference to the contract giving rise to the obligations.
Decommissioning provisions reflect the Group’s long-term obligation for site-level environmental
remediation works, arising from government regulations and changing consumer habits. The extent
and cost of future environmental remediation represents a best estimate applied across the property
portfolio based on past experience, the extent of remediation work required and the expected timing
of activity, for which there is a high level of uncertainty.
Amounts provided in the year primarily relate to charges for dilapidation and similar remediation
provisions. Amounts released in the year primarily relate to releases of dilapidations provisions.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 175 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 173.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
Note 24 Insurance Insurance contract liabilities and reinsurance contract assets
The breakdown of portfolios and groups of insurance contracts issued and reinsurance contracts held
Balances disclosed in this note relate to the Group’s subsidiary, Tesco Underwriting Limited (TU), part
is set out in the table below:
of the UK & ROI segment.
Insurance revenue 2025 2024
52 weeks 52 weeks Insurance Reinsurance Net Insurance Reinsurance Net
2025 2024 contract contracts (liabilities)/ contract contracts (liabilities)/
£m £m liabilities held assets liabilities held(a) assets(a)
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Contracts measured under premium allocation approach (PAA) 692 449
(Liabilities)/assets for (270) 181 (89) (260) 168 (92)
Expected incurred claims and other insurance service expenses 19 44 remaining coverage
Change in non-financial risk adjustment for risk expired 1 2 (Liabilities)/assets for (382) (57) (439) (266) (43) (309)
Contractual service margin (CSM) recognised for services provided 13 19 incurred claims
Contracts not measured under PAA* 33 65 (652) 124 (528) (526) 125 (401)
Insurance revenue 725 514 Contracts measured under (510) 71 (439) (364) 62 (302)
PAA
* For contracts not measured under PAA, the liability for remaining coverage is measured using the general measurement model
(GMM). Contracts not measured (142) 53 (89) (162) 63 (99)
under PAA(b)
Insurance service expenses
(652) 124 (528) (526) 125 (401)
52 weeks 52 weeks
2025 2024 (a) Comparatives have been re-presented due to the reclassification of quota share funds withheld of £346m from Asset for
£m £m remaining coverage (ARC) to Asset for incurred claims (AIC).
(b) Contracts not measured under PAA are measured using the GMM.
Incurred claims and other directly attributable expenses 595 506
Amortisation of insurance acquisition cash flows (4) (4)
Losses on onerous acquired claims 2 1
Changes to fulfilment cash flows relating to incurred claims 5 (49)
Insurance service expenses 598 454
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 176 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 174.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
Note 24 Insurance continued
Insurance contract liabilities
The following table provides a reconciliation of the movements in the total insurance contract liabilities in the current and prior year. This is split between liabilities for remaining coverage (LRC), representing
the Group’s obligation for insured events related to the unexpired portion of the coverage period, and liabilities for incurred claims (LIC), representing outstanding claims and incurred but not reported claims
and other incurred insurance expenses.
2025 2024
Liability for Liability for Liability for Liability for
remaining coverage incurred claims remaining coverage incurred claims
Estimates of Risk Estimates of Risk
Excluding present value adjustment Excluding present value adjustment
loss Loss of future cash for non- loss Loss of future cash for non-
component component flows financial risk Total component component flows financial risk Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Opening balance 258 2 250 16 526 272 2 209 18 501
Insurance revenue (725) - - - (725) (514) - - - (514)
Insurance service expenses
Incurred claims and other directly attributable expenses(a) 16 (1) 572 8 595 36 (1) 473 (2) 506
Amortisation on insurance acquisition cash flows (4) - - - (4) (4) - - - (4)
Losses on onerous acquired claims and reversals of those losses - 2 - - 2 - 1 - - 1
Changes to fulfilment cash flows relating to incurred claims - - 5 - 5 - - (49) - (49)
Total insurance service expenses 12 1 577 8 598 32 - 424 (2) 454
Total insurance service result (713) 1 577 8 (127) (482) - 424 (2) (60)
Insurance finance (income)/expenses
Insurance finance expenses recognised in the income statement 1 - 10 - 11 1 - 6 - 7
Insurance finance (income)/expenses recognised in other comprehensive income 7 - (7) - - 8 - (4) - 4
Total insurance finance (income)/expenses 8 - 3 - 11 9 - 2 - 11
Insurance cash flows
Premiums received for insurance contracts issued(b) 721 - - - 721 515 - - - 515
Incurred claims and other expenses paid(a) (1) - (472) - (473) (21) - (385) - (406)
Insurance acquisition cash flows(b) (6) - - - (6) (35) - - - (35)
Total insurance cash flows 714 - (472) - 242 459 - (385) - 74
Closing balance 267 3 358 24 652 258 2 250 16 526
(a) Incurred claims and related cash flows presented within LRC relate to the settlement of the acquired claims. The time difference between settlement of the development of the claim and payment is not significant to present within LIC.
(b) Comparatives have been re-presented to move certain commission balances between Premiums received for Insurance contracts issued and Insurance acquisition cash flows.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 177 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 175.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
Insurance contract liabilities not measured under the PAA
The following table provides a reconciliation of the movements in the insurance contract liabilities for contracts not measured under the PAA:
2025 2024
Estimates of Risk adjustment Estimates of Risk adjustment
present value of for non-financial present value of for non-financial
future cash flows risk CSM Total future cash flows risk CSM Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Opening balance* 84 5 73 162 138 7 66 211
Changes that relate to current service
CSM recognised for the year - - (13) (13) - - (19) (19)
Change in risk adjustment for non-financial risk for risk expired - (1) - (1) - (2) - (2)
Experience adjustments (2) - - (2) (13) - - (13)
Changes that relate to future service
Changes in estimates that adjust the CSM (8) - 8 - (24) - 24 -
Changes in estimates that result in losses and reversals of losses on onerous - - 3 3 - - 2 2
acquired claims
Total insurance service result (10) (1) (2) (13) (37) (2) 7 (32)
Insurance finance (income)/expenses
Insurance finance expenses recognised in the income statement 1 - - 1 1 - - 1
Insurance finance expenses recognised in other comprehensive income 7 - - 7 8 - - 8
Total insurance finance (income)/expenses 8 - - 8 9 - - 9
Insurance cash flows
Incurred claims and other expenses paid (15) - - (15) (26) - - (26)
Total insurance cash flows (15) - - (15) (26) - - (26)
Closing balance* 67 4 71 142 84 5 73 162
* Contracts not measured under the PAA relate to claims liabilities acquired on the acquisition of TU. The acquired claims liabilities are included in the LRC from the acquisition date and measured under the GMM as their coverage relates to the discovery of the ultimate
cost of acquired claims, which will spread over multiple years. Refer to Note 1 for further details.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 178 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 176.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
Note 24 Insurance continued
Reinsurance contract assets
The following table provides a reconciliation of the movements in the total reinsurance contract assets in the current and prior year. This is split between movements in assets for remaining coverage (ARC) and
assets for incurred claims (AIC) recoverable from reinsurance:
2025 2024(a)
Assets for remaining coverage Assets for incurred claims Assets for remaining coverage Assets for incurred claims
Excluding Estimates of Risk Estimates of Risk
loss- Loss- present value adjustment Excluding Loss- present value adjustment
recovery recovery of future cash for non- loss-recovery recovery of future cash for non-
component component flows financial risk Total component component flows financial risk Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Opening balance 167 1 (48) 5 125 160 1 (32) 6 135
Allocation of reinsurance premiums (282) - - - (282) (194) - - - (194)
Amounts recoverable from reinsurers
Amounts recoverable for incurred claims and other incurred insurance service expenses (4) - 236 2 234 (6) - 158 (1) 151
Recoveries of losses on onerous acquired claims and reversal of those losses - 1 - - 1 - - - - -
Changes to amounts recoverable for incurred claims - - (15) - (15) - - (5) - (5)
Net expenses from reinsurance contracts held (286) 1 221 2 (62) (200) - 153 (1) (48)
Reinsurance finance income/(expenses)
Reinsurance finance income recognised in the income statement - - 2 - 2 - - 1 - 1
Reinsurance finance income/(expenses) recognised in other comprehensive income (2) - 3 - 1 1 - - - 1
Total reinsurance finance income/(expenses) (2) - 5 - 3 1 - 1 - 2
Reinsurance cash flows
Premiums paid for reinsurance contracts held 68 - - - 68 42 - - - 42
Amounts received from reinsurers relating to incurred claims (1) - (9) - (10) (1) - (5) - (6)
Total reinsurance cash flows 67 - (9) - 58 41 - (5) - 36
Other movements(b) 233 - (233) - - 165 - (165) - -
Closing balance 179 2 (64) 7 124 167 1 (48) 5 125
(a) Comparatives have been re-presented due to the reclassification of quota share funds withheld. The opening balance for ARC has increased by £268m, for AIC reduced by £268m. For other movements, ARC has increased by £105m and AIC decreased by £105m.
The closing balance for ARC has increased by £346m and decreased for AIC by £346m. Other line item changes are immaterial.
(b) Other movements include the quota share premiums that are held against future reinsurance recoveries in a Funds Withheld account.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 179 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 177.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
Reinsurance contract assets not measured under the PAA
The following table provides a reconciliation of the movements in the reinsurance contract assets not measured under the PAA:
2025 2024
Estimates of Risk adjustment Estimates of Risk adjustment
present value of for non-financial present value of for non-financial
future cash flow risk CSM Total future cash flow risk CSM Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Opening balance* 36 3 24 63 38 2 32 72
Changes that relate to current service
CSM recognised for the year - - (1) (1) - - (1) (1)
Change in risk adjustment for non-financial risk for risk expired - - - - - - - -
Experience adjustments - (1) - (1) (7) - - (7)
Changes that relate to future service
Changes in estimates that adjust the CSM (9) (1) 10 - 6 1 (7) -
Changes in estimates that result in losses and reversals of losses on onerous - - 1 1 - - - -
acquired claims
Changes that relate to past service
Changes to incurred claims component (6) - - (6) - - - -
Total net expenses from reinsurance contracts held (15) (2) 10 (7) (1) 1 (8) (8)
Reinsurance finance income/(expenses)
Reinsurance finance income/(expenses) recognised in other comprehensive (2) - - (2) 1 - - 1
income
Total reinsurance finance income/(expenses) (2) - - (2) 1 - - 1
Reinsurance cash flows
Amounts received from reinsurers relating to incurred claims (1) - - (1) (2) - - (2)
Total reinsurance cash flows (1) - - (1) (2) - - (2)
Closing balance* 18 1 34 53 36 3 24 63
* Contract assets not measured under the PAA relate to reinsurance claims acquired on the acquisition of TU.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 180 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 178.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
Note 24 Insurance continued Recoveries
The provisions are initially estimated at a gross level and a separate calculation is carried out to
Analysis of CSM
estimate the size of reinsurance recoveries. The Group is covered by a variety of reinsurance
The following table shows an analysis of the expected recognition of the CSM remaining at the end of
programmes. The methods used by the Group take into account historical data, specific details for
the reporting period in relation to acquired claims in the income statement:
individual large claims and details of the reinsurance programme to assess the expected size of
reinsurance recoveries. Recoveries through salvage and subrogation are estimated and recorded as
22 February 2025 24 February 2024
part of the liability for incurred claims based on a combination of suitable benchmark assumptions
Insurance Reinsurance Insurance Reinsurance
contract liabilities contract assets contract liabilities contract assets and the observed development to date.
Less than one year (17) 4 (20) 4 Risk adjustment for non-financial risk
One to five years (21) 11 (33) 13 The risk adjustment for non-financial risk is the compensation that the Group requires for bearing
More than five years (33) 19 (20) 7 uncertainty around the amount and timing of the cash flows of groups of insurance contracts. The
Group has used a confidence level (probability of sufficiency) approach at the 80th percentile.
Total (71) 34 (73) 24
Discount rate
Process used to determine assumptions Insurance contract liabilities are calculated by discounting expected future cash flows using a yield
The nature of insurance makes it very difficult to predict with certainty the likely outcome of any curve based on a replicating portfolio and utilising a top-down approach. The replicating portfolio is a
particular claim and the ultimate cost of notified claims. Each notified claim is assessed on a separate, reference portfolio of government and corporate bonds matching the expected maturity profile of
case-by-case basis with due regard to the claim circumstances and historical evidence of the size of claims liabilities with resulting yield curve adjusted to eliminate credit risk spread.
similar claims and provisions are based on information currently available. However, the ultimate
The yield curves applied for discounting future cash flows of liabilities for incurred claims are listed
liabilities may vary as a result of subsequent developments.
below:
Sources of data
The sources of data used as inputs for the assumptions are internal, using detailed studies that are Mean 11 - 100
carried out at least annually to ensure that the assumptions are consistent with observable market One year Three years Five years 10 years years
% % % % %
prices or other published information. When there is insufficient information to make a reliable best
As at 22 February 2025 4.1% 4.4% 4.5% 4.6% 4.7%
estimate of claims development, suitable benchmark assumptions are used.
As at 24 February 2024 4.9% 4.7% 4.6% 4.4% 4.3%
Methods
The cost of outstanding claims and the incurred but not reported (IBNR) claims provisions are
estimated using various statistical methods, which extrapolate the development of paid and incurred
claims, average cost per claim and ultimate claim numbers for each accident period based upon
observed development of earlier periods, with reference to suitable benchmarks. The key
methods are:
– development factor methods, which use historical data to estimate the paid and incurred to date as
proportions of the ultimate claim cost;
– individual claim assessment methods, which use claim-specific details for large individual claims to
estimate the ultimate claim cost; and
– benchmarking methods, which use the experience of comparable, more mature classes, or market
data to estimate the cost of claims.
To the extent that these methods use historical claims development information, they also assume
that the historical claims development pattern will occur again in the future, after allowing (where
possible) for instances where this might not be the case, such as changing economic or legal trends.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 181 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 179.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
Actual claims payments are compared with previous estimates of the undiscounted amounts of the Note 25 Deposits from central bank
claims in the tables below on a gross and net of reinsurance basis.
2025 2024
Claims development (gross) £m £m
2022 2023 2024 2025 Total Deposits from central bank - 908
Estimate of gross undiscounted ultimate claims costs £m £m £m £m £m Of which:
At end of the financial year 233 280 365 442 Current - 108
One year later 233 289 356 - Non-current - 800
Two years later 211 300 - - - 908
Three years later 215 - - -
Current estimate of cumulative claims 215 300 356 442 1,313 The prior year includes deposits from central bank of £908m drawn under the Bank of England’s Term
Cumulative payments to date (182) (228) (270) (258) (938) Funding Scheme with incentives for small and medium-sized enterprises (TFSME). The amounts were
repaid in full in the current year.
Gross undiscounted liabilities for 33 72 86 184 375
incurred claims
Value of risk adjustment 21
Effect of discounting (32)
Gross claims liabilities 364
Ancillary claims and expense liabilities 18
Total gross liabilities for incurred claims 382
Claims development (net)
2022 2023 2024 2025 Total
Estimate of net undiscounted ultimate claims costs £m £m £m £m £m
At end of the financial year 150 169 220 258
One year later 151 176 209 -
Two years later 130 180 - -
Three years later 138 - - -
Current estimate of cumulative claims 138 180 209 258 785
Cumulative payments net of reinsurance (109) (136) (164) (149) (558)
recoveries to date
Net undiscounted liabilities for incurred 29 44 45 109 227
claims
Value of risk adjustment 15
Effect of discounting (22)
Net claims liabilities 220
Quota share funds withheld* 201
Ancillary claims and expense liabilities 18
Total net liabilities for incurred claims 439
* Quota share funds represent reinsurance premiums withheld, which will be utilised to offset recoveries receivable from
reinsurers.
The Group provides information on the gross and net claims development from the date of acquisition
of TU in May 2021 to the current reporting period, as it was not party to claims made prior to the
acquisition date.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 182 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 180.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
Note 26 Financial instruments
The Group recognises the following financial instruments on its balance sheet. The Group’s exposure to the risks associated with its financial assets and liabilities is discussed in Note 27.
2025 2024
At fair value At fair value
At fair value through other At fair value through other
through profit comprehensive through profit comprehensive
At amortised cost or loss income Total At amortised cost or loss income Total
At 22 February 2025 Notes £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents 19 2,194 61 - 2,255 2,305 35 - 2,340
Short-term investments 19 837 1,386 - 2,223 1,239 889 - 2,128
Trade receivables 18 652 - - 652 576 - - 576
Other receivables 18 183 - - 183 274 - - 274
Joint ventures and associates loan receivables 31 97 - - 97 96 - - 96
Other investments 16 196 15 874 1,085 1,033 18 701 1,752
Derivative financial instruments:
Interest rate swaps - 24 - 24 - 44 - 44
Cross-currency swaps - 138 - 138 - 182 - 182
Index-linked swaps - 646 - 646 - 583 - 583
Forward foreign currency contracts - 27 - 27 - 25 - 25
Diesel forward contracts - - - - - 2 - 2
4,159 2,297 874 7,330 5,523 1,778 701 8,002
Financial liabilities
Trade payables 20 (6,692) - - (6,692) (6,644) - - (6,644)
Accruals 20 (943) - - (943) (931) - - (931)
Other payables 20 (1,849) - - (1,849) (1,864) - - (1,864)
Borrowings 22 (6,950) - - (6,950) (7,219) - - (7,219)
Deposits from central bank 25 - - - - (908) - - (908)
Lease liabilities 13 (7,716) - - (7,716) (7,622) - - (7,622)
Derivative financial instruments:
Interest rate swaps - (74) - (74) - (105) - (105)
Cross-currency swaps - (130) - (130) - (139) - (139)
Forward foreign currency contracts - (11) - (11) - (20) - (20)
Diesel forward contracts - (2) - (2) - (2) - (2)
(24,150) (217) - (24,367) (25,188) (266) - (25,454)
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 183 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 181.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
The expected maturity of financial assets and liabilities is not considered to be materially different to Fair value measurement by level of fair value hierarchy
their current and non-current classification. The following tables present the Group’s financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value,
by level of fair value hierarchy:
The fair value of assets and liabilities measured at amortised cost are shown below.
– quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1);
Fair value of financial assets and liabilities measured at amortised cost
– inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability,
The table excludes cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, trade receivables/payables,
either directly (that is, as prices) or indirectly (that is, derived from prices) (Level 2); and
other receivables/payables and accruals where the carrying values approximate fair value. The levels
– inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (that is, unobservable
in the table refer to the fair value measurement hierarchy.
inputs) (Level 3).
22 February 2025 24 February 2024 Level 2 assets and liabilities are valued by discounting future cash flows using externally sourced
Carrying Fair Carrying Fair market yield curves, including interest rate curves and foreign exchange rates from highly liquid
value value(a) value value(a) markets. Refer to the Level 3 Instruments section below for details on Level 3 valuation methodology.
Level £m £m £m £m
Financial assets measured at amortised cost
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
Investment in debt instruments at amortised cost(b)(c) 1 and 2 196 201 1,033 838 At 22 February 2025 £m £m £m £m
Joint ventures and associates loan receivables 2 97 105 96 97 Assets
Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost Investments at fair value through other comprehensive income 855 - 19 874
Borrowings Short-term investments at fair value through profit or loss 1,386 - - 1,386
Amortised cost 1 (4,916) (4,651) (5,067) (4,794) Cash and cash equivalents at fair value through profit or loss - 61 - 61
Bonds in fair value hedge relationships 1 (2,034) (2,088) (2,152) (2,211) Other investments at fair value through profit and loss - - 15 15
Derivative financial instruments:
(a) Refer to the fair value measurement by level of fair value hierarchy section for details on Level 2 methodology.
(b) Investment securities previously held by Tesco Bank were wound down in advance of the sale of the Group’s Banking operations. Interest rate swaps - - 24 24
Refer to Note 16.
(c) These are principally Level 1 instruments. Cross-currency swaps - - 138 138
Index-linked swaps - - 646 646
Foreign currency forward contracts - 27 - 27
Total assets 2,241 88 842 3,171
Liabilities
Derivative financial instruments:
Interest rate swaps - - (74) (74)
Cross-currency swaps - - (130) (130)
Foreign currency forward contracts - (11) - (11)
Diesel forward contracts - (2) - (2)
Total liabilities - (13) (204) (217)
Net assets 2,241 75 638 2,954
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 184 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 182.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
Note 26 Financial instruments continued The following table presents the changes in Level 3 instruments:
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 2025 2024
At 24 February 2024 £m £m £m £m
Uncollateralised Unlisted Uncollateralised Unlisted
Assets derivatives investments derivatives investments
Investments at fair value through other comprehensive income 682 - 19 701 £m £m £m £m
At the beginning of the year 545 37 379 34
Short-term investments at fair value through profit or loss 889 - - 889
Gains/(losses) recognised in (14) (1) 9 (2)
Cash and cash equivalents at fair value through profit or loss - 35 - 35
finance costs(a)
Other investments at fair value through profit and loss - - 18 18
Gains/(losses) recognised in - 4 - -
Derivative financial instruments: other comprehensive income not
Interest rate swaps - 29 15 44 reclassified to the income statement
Cross-currency swaps - - 182 182 Gains/(losses) recognised in other 35 - 15 -
comprehensive income that may
Index-linked swaps - - 583 583
subsequently be reclassified to the
Foreign currency forward contracts - 25 - 25 income statement
Diesel forward contracts - 2 - 2 Impairment recognised in cost - (10) - -
Total assets 1,571 91 817 2,479 of sales
Liabilities Additions - 5 - 5
Derivative financial instruments: Settlements 38 - - -
Interest rate swaps - (9) (96) (105) Transfers of assets to Level 3(b) - - 142 -
Cross-currency swaps - - (139) (139) Transfers of assets from Level 3(c) - (1) - -
Foreign currency forward contracts - (20) - (20) At the end of the year 604 34 545 37
Diesel forward contracts - (2) - (2) (a) Net unrealised gains/(losses) of £105m (2024: £7m) are attributable to those assets and liabilities held at the end of the year and
Total liabilities - (31) (235) (266) have been recognised in finance costs in the Group income statement.
(b) There were £nil transfers of unlisted investments (2024: £nil) and £nil of derivative assets (2024: £142m derivative assets) to Level 3
Net assets 1,571 60 582 2,213 from Level 2 and £nil (2024: £nil) to Level 3 from Level 1.
(c) There were £1m transfers from Level 3 to Level 2 (2024: £nil) and £nil transfers from Level 3 to Level 1 (2024: £nil).
During the financial year, there were no transfers (2024: no transfers) between Level 1 and Level 2 fair
value measurements.
Level 3 instruments
Uncollateralised derivative financial instruments are held by the Group as part of financial risk
management, and include interest rate and inflation-linked swaps, cross-currency swaps and foreign
exchange and diesel forward contracts. Uncollateralised derivatives are valued as per Level 2 but
include certain data sources which are significantly less liquid. Level 2 inputs include forward rates
and foreign exchange rates from available market data, with credit risk adjustments being
incorporated in the derivative valuations, taking into account the default risk of either party using
market data such as credit default swaps. Unobservable inputs (Level 3) relate to the funding valuation
adjustment (FVA), which is the estimate of the adjustment to the fair value that a market participant
would make to account for funding costs. These are calculated on the future valuation of the
derivative, based on the best estimate available to management of suitable relevant cost of funds.
A 10 basis points increase in the cost of funds would increase the FVA by £7m (2024: £12m). Unlisted
investments are valued based on less observable inputs such as recent funding rounds.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 185 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 183.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
Offsetting of financial assets and liabilities
The following tables show those financial assets and liabilities subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements.
Related amounts not offset in
the Group balance sheet
Gross amounts of
Gross amounts financial assets/ Net amounts
of recognised (liabilities) offset in included Collateral
financial assets/ the Group balance in the Group Financial (received)/
(liabilities) sheet balance sheet instruments pledged Net amount
At 22 February 2025 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Financial assets
Derivative financial instruments 835 - 835 (115) - 720
Trade receivables 758 (106) 652 - - 652
Total assets 1,593 (106) 1,487 (115) - 1,372
Financial liabilities
Derivative financial instruments (217) - (217) 115 - (102)
Trade payables (6,798) 106 (6,692) - - (6,692)
Total liabilities (7,015) 106 (6,909) 115 - (6,794)
Related amounts not offset in
the Group balance sheet
Gross amounts of
Gross amounts financial assets/ Net amounts
of recognised (liabilities) offset in included Collateral
financial assets/ the Group balance in the Group Financial (received)/
(liabilities) sheet balance sheet instruments pledged Net amount
At 24 February 2024 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Financial assets
Derivative financial instruments 836 - 836 (118) (20) 698
Trade receivables 667 (91) 576 - - 576
Total assets 1,503 (91) 1,412 (118) (20) 1,274
Financial liabilities
Derivative financial instruments (266) - (266) 118 - (148)
Trade payables (6,735) 91 (6,644) - - (6,644)
Total liabilities (7,001) 91 (6,910) 118 - (6,792)
For the financial assets and liabilities subject to enforceable master netting arrangements above, each agreement between the Group and the counterparty allows for net settlement of the relevant financial
assets and liabilities when both elect to settle on a net basis. In the absence of such an election, financial assets and liabilities will be settled on a gross basis. However, each party to the master netting
agreement or similar agreement will have the option to settle all such amounts on a net basis in the event of default of the other party.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 186 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 184.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
Note 27 Financial risk management
The main financial risks faced by the Group and the management of these risks are set out below, and include market risk (foreign exchange, interest rate, inflation and commodity prices), credit risk, liquidity
risk, capital risk and insurance risk.
a) Market risk
Foreign exchange risk management
Description of risks Management policy Hedging strategy
Transactional exposure that arises from the cost of The Group’s policy is to hedge currency exposure that could significantly Foreign currency forward contracts which are designated as cash flow
future purchases of goods, where those purchases impact the Group income statement. Minimum and maximum hedge limits hedges. These are denominated in the same currency as the highly probable
are denominated in a currency other than the are in place depending on whether forecast spend is committed or future sales and purchases, which are expected to occur within a maximum
functional currency of the purchasing company. uncommitted but highly probable. 24-month period, and the hedge ratio is determined to be 1:1.
Translation exposure that arises from exchange rate Translation risk related to foreign subsidiaries is not actively hedged. Euro-denominated borrowings are used to hedge the exposure of a portion
movements in connection with translating the Group’s However, to reduce this exposure in relation to the net assets of foreign of the Group’s net investments in overseas operations which have a Euro
foreign subsidiaries’ revenue, expenses, assets and subsidiaries, net investment hedging is undertaken. functional currency, against changes in value due to changes in foreign exchange
liabilities into Pounds Sterling. rates. The Group has established a hedge ratio of 1:1, as the underlying risk of the
hedging instrument is identical to the hedged risk component.
Loans to and from subsidiaries in currencies other The Group's policy is to swap 100% of the foreign currency debt back Foreign currency derivatives and borrowings in matching currencies, which
than in the entity’s functional currency. to Pounds Sterling or designate as a net investment hedge. are not formally designated as accounting hedges as gains and losses will
naturally offset in the income statement.
Debt issued in a currency other than Pounds Sterling. The Group’s policy is to swap 100% of the foreign currency debt back to Pounds Cross-currency swaps, which are designated as fair value hedges
Sterling, unless there are appropriate matching foreign currency assets. or economic hedges.
Residual exposure is present, arising largely from cash and cash equivalents balances that are not in the functional currency of the entity holding these balances. The Group income statement impact of foreign
currency exchange rate movements on these residual balances is disclosed in the sensitivity table on page 186.
Interest rate risk management
Description of risks Management policy Hedging strategy
Debt issued at variable interest rates as well as cash The Group's policy is to manage its cash flow and fair value risk on a net debt Interest rate swap contracts are used to fix interest rates on senior unsecured
deposits and short-term investments, giving rise to basis (senior unsecured debt, lease liabilities, cash and cash equivalents and debt or investments issued at floating rates, creating a cash flow hedge; and for
cash flow risk, and debt issued at fixed interest rates short-term investments). senior unsecured debt or investments issued at fixed rates to generate variable
giving rise to fair value risk. interest exposure, creating a fair value hedge. The terms of the swap contracts
match the terms of the borrowings or investments including notional amounts
and maturity, interest settlement and interest rate reset dates, and the Group
has established a hedge ratio of 1:1 for the hedging relationships as the underlying
risk of the derivative contract is identical to that of the hedged item.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 187 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 185.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
The table below shows the interest rate risk profile for the Group’s financial instruments:
2025 2024
Fixed Floating Total Fixed Floating Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Cash and cash equivalents - 2,255 2,255 28 2,312 2,340
Short-term investments - 2,223 2,223 - 2,128 2,128
Investments in debt instruments at amortised cost 196 - 196 577 456 1,033
Investments at fair value through other comprehensive income 866 8 874 687 14 701
Investments at fair value through profit or loss 15 - 15 18 - 18
Joint ventures and associates loan receivables 97 - 97 96 - 96
Lease liabilities (7,716) - (7,716) (7,622) - (7,622)
Borrowings(a) (6,043) (907) (6,950) (6,353) (866) (7,219)
Assets of the Banking operations disposal group(b) - - - 4,090 3,925 8,015
Liabilities of the Banking operations disposal group(c) - - - (4,806) (2,183) (6,989)
Deposits from central bank - - - - (908) (908)
Derivative effect:
Interest rate swaps 1,464 (1,464) - (720) 720 -
Cross-currency swaps 902 (902) - 920 (920) -
Total (10,219) 1,213 (9,006) (13,085) 4,678 (8,407)
Percentage of interest-bearing debt at fixed rate 83% 83%
Weighted average rate of interest paid on senior unsecured debt, excluding joint ventures and associates 4.8% 4.8%
(a) RPI-linked borrowings of £(379)m have been re-presented as fixed in the prior year.
(b) Comprised loans and advances to customers of £7,669m and cash and cash equivalents of £346m in the prior year.
(c) Comprised borrowings of £(549)m and customer deposits of £(6,440)m in the prior year.
Inflation risk management
Description of risks Management policy Hedging strategy
Index-linked debt, where the principal is indexed to The Group’s policy is to hedge inflation in total balance sheet debt (including index-linked bonds and RPI- LPI debt (where principal is indexed to RPI, with an
increase/decrease in line with either RPI or LPI. linked lease liabilities) on a portfolio basis alongside its interest rate risk management. Interest and inflation annual maximum increase of 5% and a minimum of
risk in total balance sheet debt are managed to a combined target of 50% fixed, with a tolerance of 15%, 0%) and RPI debt are hedged back to fixed rate using
where RPI-linked rents are considered to be floating. derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges.
Index-linked lease liabilities, where the liability is indexed Indexed liabilities arising from property joint ventures
to increase/decrease in line with either RPI or LPI. are fully hedged using derivative contracts which
economically hedge the lease liability inflation uplift.
Refer to Note 13 for information on the Group’s exposure to inflation-linked leases.
Commodity risk management
Description of risks Management policy Hedging strategy
Changes in commodity prices largely relating to diesel The Group policy is to hedge a minimum of 50% of the forecast uncommitted exposure within the next Forward derivative contracts which are designated as
for own use. 12 months. cash flow hedges are used to hedge future purchases
of diesel for own use. These are denominated in the
same currency and volume as the forecast purchases
and the hedge ratio is determined to be 1:1.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 188 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 186.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
Note 27 Financial risk management continued 2025 2024
Financial instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting Income gain/ Equity gain/ Income gain/ Equity gain/
The Group’s policy does not permit the use of derivatives for trading purposes. However, some (loss) (loss) (loss) (loss)
£m £m £m £m
derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting, or are specifically not designated as a hedge where
1% increase in interest rates (21) 2 3 2
gains and losses on the hedging instrument and the hedged item naturally offset in the Group income
statement. These instruments include index-linked swaps, interest rate swaps, cross-currency swaps 5% appreciation of the Euro (9) (47) (5) (49)
and foreign currency forward contracts. 5% appreciation of the US Dollar (10) 38 2 38
Sensitivity analysis 50 basis points parallel upward shift in the forward 82 20 93 23
inflation curve
The impact on the financial statements of the Group from foreign currency, inflation, interest rate
and commodity price volatility is discussed below. 10% increase in commodity prices* - 6 1 10
The analysis excludes the impact of movements in market variables on the carrying value of pension * Relating to diesel prices only, where derivatives are used to hedge risk.
and other post-employment benefit obligations and on the retranslation of overseas net assets. A decrease in interest rates and commodity prices, depreciation of foreign currencies and downward
However, it does include the foreign exchange sensitivity resulting from local entity non-functional shift in the forward inflation curve would have the opposite effect to the impact in the table above.
currency financial instruments.
The impact on the Group income statement resulting from changes in foreign exchange rates against
The sensitivity analysis has been prepared on the basis that the amount of net debt, the ratio of fixed GBP in relation to financial instruments (excluding those arising on consolidation) is minimal as Group
to floating interest rates of the debt and derivatives portfolio, and the proportion of financial policy dictates that all material income statement foreign exchange exposures are hedged.
instruments in foreign currencies are all constant and on the basis of the hedge designations in place
In prior years, the Group entered into a number of derivative index-linked contracts with external
at 22 February 2025. It should be noted that the sensitivity analysis reflects the impact on income and
counterparties, to economically hedge a proportion of the Group’s exposure to index-linked lease
equity due to financial instruments held at the balance sheet date. It does not reflect any change in
liabilities with its joint ventures. These are specifically not designated as accounting hedges but are
sales or costs that may result from changing interest or exchange rates.
economic hedges. However, the gains and losses on the hedging instrument and hedged item do not
The following assumptions were made in calculating the sensitivity analysis: naturally offset in the Group income statement. This mismatch arises due to different accounting
outcomes of IFRS 9 and IFRS 16, which results in a timing difference.
– the sensitivity of interest payable to movements in interest rates is calculated on net floating rate
exposures on debt, deposits and derivative instruments with no sensitivity assumed for RPI-linked The impact on the Group statement of comprehensive income/(loss) from changing exchange rates
borrowings, which have been swapped to fixed rates; results from the revaluation of financial liabilities used as net investment hedges. The impact on the
– changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments designated as fair value hedges Group statement of comprehensive income/(loss) will largely be offset by the revaluation in equity of
against movements in interest rates or foreign exchange rates have an immaterial effect on the the hedged assets in the Group statement of changes in equity.
Group income statement and equity due to compensating adjustments in the carrying value of debt;
Derivatives and hedging exposures
– changes in the carrying value of financial instruments designated as net investment hedges against
Derivatives are used to hedge exposure to market risks, some of which are economic hedges and
movements in foreign exchange rates are recorded directly in the Group statement of
others are formally designated hedging instruments with hedge accounting applied. The main sources
comprehensive income/(loss);
of hedge ineffectiveness are the effects of the counterparties’ and the Group’s own credit risk on the
– all other changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments designated as hedging
fair value of derivatives.
instruments are fully effective with no impact on the Group income statement; and
– the floating leg of any swap or any floating rate debt is treated as not having any interest rate already
set, therefore a change in interest rates affects a full 12-month period for the interest payable
portion of the sensitivity calculations.
Using the above assumptions, the following table shows the quantitative effect on the Group income
statement and the Group statement of changes in equity that would result, at the balance sheet date,
from changes in interest rates, inflation rates, currency exchange rates and commodity prices that are
reasonably possible for major currencies where there have recently been significant movements:
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 189 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 187.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
The fair value and notional amounts of derivatives analysed by hedge type are as follows:
2025 2024
Asset Liability Asset Liability
Fair value Notional Fair value Notional Fair value Notional Fair value Notional
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Fair value hedges
Interest rate swaps 24 414 (72) 1,100 44 916 (103) 1,152
Cross-currency swaps - - (118) 621 - - (126) 640
Banking operations disposal group(a) - - - - 50 3,355 (16) 1,543
Cash flow hedges
Interest rate swaps - - (2) 50 - - (2) 50
Index-linked swaps(b) 299 406 - - 265 406 - -
Foreign currency forward contracts 25 1,094 (8) 601 20 818 (17) 862
Diesel forward contracts - 20 (2) 41 2 31 (2) 57
Derivatives not in a formal hedge relationship
Cross-currency swaps 138 308 (12) 95 182 790 (13) 94
Index-linked swaps 347 2,074 - - 318 2,074 - -
Foreign currency forward contracts 2 285 (3) 545 5 379 (3) 433
Diesel forward contracts - - - - - 1 - 4
Banking operations disposal group(a) - - - - 4 315 (1) -
Total 835 4,601 (217) 3,053 890 9,085 (283) 4,835
(a) Interest rate swaps within the Banking operations disposal group.
(b) The notional values of the index-linked swaps designated as cash flow hedges have been re-presented to show the original unindexed notional amounts. In the prior year, the table presented the notional values after inflation indexation. The current year notional value
after indexation for these swaps is £818m (2024: £790m).
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 190 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 188.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
Note 27 Financial risk management continued
The following table sets out the maturity profile, average interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates of the hedging instruments used in the Group’s hedging strategies.
2025 2024
More than five More than five
Maturity profile Up to one year One to five years years Up to one year One to five years years
Notional amount (£m)
Fair value hedges
Interest rate swaps – GBP 400 - 700 150 726 766
Interest rate swaps – EUR - - 414 - - 426
Cross currency swaps (GBP: EUR)(a) - 621 - - - 640
Banking operations disposal group(b) - - - 2,695 2,157 46
Cash flow hedges
Index-linked swaps(c) 210 - 196 - 210 196
Interest rate swaps - 50 - - 50 -
Average net interest rate (pay)/receive
Fair value hedges
Interest rate swaps – GBP (3.41)% - (3.04)% 4.39% (3.58)% (3.67)%
Interest rate swaps – EUR - - 0.59% - - (0.88)%
Cross currency swaps (GBP: EUR)(a) - (5.19)% - - - (5.91)%
Banking operations disposal group(b) - - - (0.50)% (1.18)% (1.05)%
Cash flow hedges
Index-linked swaps (4.23)% - (4.21)% - (4.23)% (4.21)%
Interest rate swaps - (0.45)% - - 0.29% -
(a) Average exchange rate for cross-currency swaps (GBP: EUR) is 1.128 (2024: 1.128).
(b) Interest rate swaps within the Banking operations disposal group.
(c) The notional values of the index-linked swaps designated as cash flow hedges have been re-presented to show the original unindexed notional amounts. In the prior year, the table presented the notional values after inflation indexation. The current year notional value
after indexation for these swaps with maturities up to one year is £425m (2024: £nil), one to five years is £nil (2024: £411m) and more than five years is £393m (2024: £379m).
At 22 February 2025, foreign currency forward contracts, designated as cash flow hedges, equivalent to £1.7bn were outstanding (2024: £1.7bn). These forward contracts are largely in relation to purchases of
Euros (notional €0.7bn) (2024: notional €0.4bn) and US Dollars (notional $0.9bn) (2024: notional $0.8bn) with varying maturities up to February 2026.
For the above currencies the rates ranged from EUR/GBP 1.149 to 1.206 (2024: 1.134 to 1.171) and USD/GBP from 1.219 to 1.336 (2024: 1.181 to 1.306).
Forward commodity contracts hedging diesel purchases for own use as at 22 February 2025 had a GBP notional of £61m (2024: £93m) at a rate of £515 to £618 (2024: £493 to £828) per tonne.
The notional and fair values of these contracts are shown in the table on page 187.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 191 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 189.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
The following table sets out the details of the hedged exposures covered by the Group’s fair value hedges:
2025 2024
Accumulated Accumulated
amounts of fair Changes in amounts of fair Changes in
value adjustments fair value for value adjustments fair value for
Carrying amount on hedged item calculating hedge Carrying amount on hedged item calculating hedge
assets/(liabilities) assets/(liabilities) ineffectiveness assets/(liabilities) assets/(liabilities) ineffectiveness
Balance sheet classification £m £m £m £m £m £m
Interest rate risk
Fixed-rate investment securities Other investments - - - 377 32 12
Fixed-rate bonds(a) Borrowings (2,492) 114 36 (2,615) 142 50
Fixed-rate loans(b) Assets of the disposal group - - - 3,355 33 41
Fixed-rate savings(b) Liabilities of the disposal group - - - (1,543) (1) 1
(a) The accumulated amount of fair value adjustments remaining in the Group balance sheet for hedged items that have ceased to be adjusted for hedging gains and losses was £(70)m for fixed-rate bonds (2024: £(77)m).
(b) Loans and advances to customers and customer deposits were transferred to the Banking operations disposal group in the prior year and disposed of in the current year.
The following table sets out information regarding the change in value of the hedged item used in calculating hedge ineffectiveness as well as the impacts on the hedging reserve for cash flow hedge designations:
2025 2024
Change in Change in
value of hedging Change in value of value of hedging Change in value of
instrument for hedged item for Cumulative instrument for hedged item for Cumulative
calculating hedge calculating hedge impact on hedging calculating hedge calculating hedge impact on hedging
ineffectiveness ineffectiveness reserve(a) ineffectiveness ineffectiveness reserve(a)
Hedging instrument £m £m £m £m £m £m
Interest rate/inflation risk
Index-linked bonds Index-linked swaps 32 (20) 10 25 (17) 16
Borrowings Interest rate swaps 1 (1) 5 1 (1) 7
Foreign currency risk
Forecasted purchases Foreign currency forward contracts 10 (10) 8 31 (31) 6
Commodity risk
Forecasted purchases Diesel forward contracts (3) 3 (1) 9 (9) (1)
Interest rate/foreign currency risk
MTNs(b) Cross-currency swaps - - 46 - - 75
(a) Excludes deferred tax.
(b) This is a discontinued hedge.
The following table sets out information regarding the effectiveness of hedging relationships designated by the Group, as well as the impacts on profit or loss and other comprehensive income:
2025 2024
Line item in Group Hedge ineffectiveness Hedge ineffectiveness
income statement recognised recognised
that includes hedge in profit or loss in profit or loss
ineffectiveness £m £m
Fair value hedges – interest rate risk
Borrowings Finance cost (1) (9)
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 192 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 190.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
Note 27 Financial risk management continued
The following table presents a reconciliation by risk category of the cash flow hedge reserve and an analysis of other comprehensive income in relation to hedge accounting:
Interest rate/
foreign currency
Interest rate/inflation risk risk Foreign currency/commodity risk
Foreign currency
Index-linked Interest rate Cross-currency forward Diesel forward Hedging
swaps swaps swaps contracts(a) contracts(a) reserve(b)
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At 25 February 2023 34 5 25 (24) (7) 33
Net fair value gains/(losses) 24 - - (39) 1 (14)
Amount reclassified to finance income/(cost) in Group income statement (52) (2) (2) - - (56)
Transfer from hedging reserve to retained earnings - - 44 - - 44
Amount reclassified to inventories - - - 71 8 79
Tax 7 - (10) - (2) (5)
At 24 February 2024 13 3 57 8 - 81
Net fair value gains/(losses) 32 1 - 10 (3) 40
Amount reclassified to finance income/(cost) in Group income statement (38) (1) (30) (2) - (71)
Amount reclassified to inventories - - - (7) 3 (4)
Tax 1 - 8 (2) - 7
At 22 February 2025 8 3 35 7 - 53
(a) Net fair value gains/(losses) relates to inventory cash flow hedges of £7m (2024: £(38)m) and other cash flow hedges of £nil (2024: £nil).
(b) Includes £4m (2024: £6m) relating to non-controlling interests.
Net investment hedges
The details of the hedging instruments and movements in cumulative impact on net investment hedges in other comprehensive income are set out below:
Nominal amount Cumulative impact
of hedging Nominal amount of on net investment
instrument hedged item hedges
£m £m £m
At 25 February 2023 (1,325) 1,325 (794)
Discontinued hedges in the year(a) 653 (653) 9
New hedges designated in the year(b) (436) 436 9
Change in value for calculating ineffectiveness 40 (40) 22
At 24 February 2024 (1,068) 1,068 (754)
Change in value for calculating ineffectiveness 33 (33) 33
At 22 February 2025 (1,035) 1,035 (721)
(a) As at 22 February 2025, the discontinued hedge balance is £(760)m (2024: £(760)m).
(b) During the year, there was no discontinuation and no new designation of MTNs in a net investment hedge. In the prior year, €750m 1.375% MTN Oct 2023 was repaid and another €500m 4.25% MTN Feb 2031 was subsequently designated in a net investment hedge.
Net investment hedge ineffectiveness was £nil (2024: £nil) during the year.
During the current financial year, currency movements decreased the net value, after the effects of hedging, of the Group’s overseas assets by £(56)m (2024: decrease by £(116)m). The Group also ensures that
each subsidiary is appropriately hedged in respect of its non-functional currency assets.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 193 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 191.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
(b) Credit risk
Description of risk Management policy Measurement
A counterparty will not meet its obligations leading to For cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, other investments, and derivative financial The Group monitors the exposure, credit rating,
a financial loss for the Group. This arises from cash instruments: outlook, and credit default swap levels of these
and cash equivalents, short-term investments, trade – the Group holds positions with an approved list of investment-grade rated counterparties. counterparties on a regular basis.
receivables, other receivables, joint venture and – counterparty credit limits are set to minimise the concentration of risk and are set taking into account
Counterparty credit limits are reviewed every
associate loan receivables, reinsurance contract assets, the type and value of the specific financial asset.
six months and may be updated throughout the
other investments, and derivative financial instruments.
For trade receivables, other receivables, joint venture and associate loan receivables, and reinsurance financial year.
contract assets:
Refer to page 192 for information on the Group’s ECLs.
– the Group’s credit risk is managed with various mitigating controls including credit checks, credit
insurance, and master netting agreements. Due to the nature of the business, there is little concentration
of risk due to the large number of customers which are spread across wide geographical areas.
Maximum exposure to credit risk
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the end of the reporting period reflects the carrying amount of each class of financial assets, including loan commitments which are not recognised on the balance sheet.
The net counterparty exposure under derivative contracts is £0.6bn (2024: £0.7bn).
The Group’s maximum gross exposure to credit risk is analysed below by class of financial instrument, including for financial instruments that are not subject to ECL i.e. derivative financial instruments:
2025 2024
£m £m
Cash and cash equivalents 2,255 2,340
Short-term investments 2,223 2,128
Trade receivables 652 576
Other receivables 183 274
Joint venture and associates loan receivables 97 96
Assets of the Banking operations disposal group(a) - 7,698
Other investments 1,085 1,752
Derivative financial assets:
Interest rate swaps 24 44
Cross-currency swaps 138 182
Index-linked swaps 646 583
Foreign currency forward contracts 27 25
Diesel forward contracts - 2
Off balance sheet:
Loan commitments(b) - 12,850
Maximum exposure to credit risk 7,330 28,550
(a) Relates to assets transferred to the Banking operations disposal group in the prior year and disposed of in the current year.
(b) Loan commitments in the prior year represented the undrawn amount contractually committed by the Banking operations disposal group.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 194 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 192.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
Note 27 Financial risk management continued
Counterparty credit rating
The table below provides detail of financial assets by long-term credit rating of investment-grade rated counterparties:
2025 2024
Rating AAA AA A BBB Total AAA AA A BBB Total
Cash and cash equivalents(a) - - 1,355 35 1,390 - - 1,517 15 1,532
Short-term investments 1,389 3 731 100 2,223 889 203 986 50 2,128
Investment in debt securities at amortised cost(b) - - - 192 192 391 48 393 196 1,028
Investment at fair value through other comprehensive income(c) 156 123 341 235 855 117 100 287 178 682
Investments at fair value through profit or loss(d) - - - - - - 1 - - 1
Assets of the Banking operations disposal group(e) - - - - - - 54 - - 54
Derivative financial assets:
Interest rate swaps - 12 12 - 24 - 36 8 - 44
Cross-currency swaps - - 138 - 138 - - 181 1 182
Index-linked swaps - - 299 347 646 - - 134 449 583
Foreign currency forward contracts - 5 22 - 27 - 2 18 5 25
Diesel forward contracts - - - - - - - 1 1 2
(a) Excludes £865m (2024: £808m) of cash and cash equivalents which do not have a credit rating.
(b) Excludes £4m (2024: £5m) of investments in debt instruments which do not have a credit rating.
(c) Excludes £19m (2024: £19m) of investments in equity instruments which do not have a credit rating.
(d) Excludes £15m (2024: £17m) of property fund investments that do not have a credit rating.
(e) Comprises interest rate swaps transferred to the Banking operations disposal group in the prior year and disposed of in the current year.
Expected credit losses (ECLs)
The Group applies either the simplified approach or the three-stage model for ECLs, depending on the nature of the financial asset. The ECL is determined by multiplying together the probability of default (PD),
exposure at default (EAD) and the loss given default (LGD) for the relevant time period and for each specific loan and by discounting back to the balance sheet date.
The Group’s financial assets are written off when the balance is known not to be recoverable or the Group is time-barred from recovering a balance under local legislation. The ECLs are immaterial. Gross loans
to related parties of £97m (2024: £96m) are presented net of loss allowances of £nil (2024: £nil) on the Group balance sheet.
For reinsurance contract assets the maximum exposure to credit risk is their carrying amount, refer to Note 24. Refer to page 195 for the credit rating of the reinsurers.
The low credit risk exemption has been applied to cash and cash equivalents, money market funds, deposits and similar investments, investments in debt instruments at fair value through other comprehensive
income (FVOCI), investments at fair value through profit or loss (FVPL) and investments in debt instruments at amortised cost.
(c) Liquidity risk
Description of risk Management policy Measurement
Difficulty in meeting the obligations associated with the The Group finances its liquidity position and its operations by a combination of retained profits, disposals of Liquidity risk is continuously monitored by short-term
Group’s financial liabilities. assets, debt capital market issuance, bank borrowings, and leases. The policy is to maintain a prudent level and long-term cash flow forecasts.
of cash together with sufficient committed bank facilities to meet liquidity needs as they arise, to maintain
a smooth debt profile and to ensure maturing senior unsecured debt will not exceed £1.5bn in any 12-month
period.
The Group is exposed to liquidity risk from daily calls on The Group manages its liquidity risk by having an investment guideline that it maintains sufficient liquidity,
its cash resources, including from claims arising on its or its financial assets can be realised at short notice in the event of a major adverse event. The Group may
insurance contracts. There is a risk that cash will not be also make use of borrowing facilities if required.
available to settle liabilities when they fall due.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 195 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 193.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
The Group is investment-grade rated with all three major credit rating agencies and retains access to Borrowing facilities
capital markets so that maturing debt may be refinanced as it falls due. The Group has the following undrawn committed facilities available at 22 February 2025, in respect of
which all conditions precedent had been met as at that date:
2025 2024
Short-term Long-term Short-term Long-term 2025 2024
rating rating Outlook rating rating Outlook £m £m
Rating agency Expiring in less than one year 38 238
Fitch F3 BBB- Stable F3 BBB- Stable Expiring between one and two years - -
Moody’s P-3 Baa3 Stable P-3 Baa3 Stable Expiring in more than two years 2,500 2,500
Standard & Poor’s A-3 BBB- Positive A-3 BBB- Stable Total 2,538 2,738
The Group has a £15.0bn Euro Medium Term Note programme, of which £2.8bn (2024: £2.4bn) is in The Group has a £2.5bn undrawn committed facility available at 22 February 2025 (24 February 2024:
issue in GBP and €2.2bn (2024: €2.7bn) is in issue in EUR, plus $0.4bn of USD-denominated notes £2.5bn), in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met as at that date, consisting of a
issued under 144A documentation (2024: $0.4bn). The amount in issue includes £0.4bn (2024: £0.4bn) syndicated revolving credit facility expiring in more than two years. The cost of the facility is linked to
of accretion on the index-linked MTNs which will be repayable at maturity. three ESG targets and incurs commitment fees at market rates which would provide funding at floating
rates. There were no drawings under the facility during the year (2024: £nil).
Maturities of financial liabilities
The following is an analysis of the undiscounted contractual cash flows payable under financial liabilities and derivative liabilities, taking into account contractual terms that provide the counterparty a choice of
when (the earliest date) an amount is repaid by the Group. The potential cash outflow is considered acceptable as it is offset by financial assets.
The undiscounted cash flows will differ from both the carrying values and fair values. Floating-rate interest and inflation is estimated using the prevailing rate at the balance sheet date. Cash flows in foreign
currencies are translated using spot rates at the balance sheet date.
Due within Due between 1 Due between 2 Due between 3 Due between 4 Due beyond 5
1 year and 2 years and 3 years and 4 years and 5 years years
At 22 February 2025 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Borrowings (1,748) (686) (71) (718) (687) (3,117)
Interest payments on borrowings (202) (175) (166) (162) (138) (798)
Lease liabilities (995) (973) (940) (896) (855) (6,217)
Trade payables (6,692) - - - - -
Other payables (1,815) (15) (6) (1) (1) (11)
Accruals (943) - - - - -
Derivative financial liabilities
Net settled derivative contracts – receipts - - - - - 7
Net settled derivative contracts – payments (22) (18) (18) (18) (17) -
Gross settled derivative contracts – receipts 1,145 113 2 2 623 -
Gross settled derivative contracts – payments (1,194) (155) (33) (33) (681) -
Total (12,466) (1,909) (1,232) (1,826) (1,756) (10,136)
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 196 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 194.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
Note 27 Financial risk management continued
Due within Due between 1 Due between 2 Due between 3 Due between 4 Due beyond 5
1 year and 2 years and 3 years and 4 years and 5 years years
At 24 February 2024 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Borrowings (1,416) (891) (706) (71) (718) (4,148)
Interest payments on borrowings (205) (221) (130) (153) (149) (906)
Deposits from central bank – Tesco Bank (151) (820) - - - -
Lease liabilities (903) (931) (913) (889) (842) (6,279)
Trade payables (6,644) - - - - -
Other payables (1,831) (13) (5) (1) (1) (13)
Accruals (931) - - - - -
Liabilities of the Banking operations disposal group(a) (5,789) (481) (681) (128) (130) (2)
Derivative financial liabilities
Net settled derivative contracts – receipts 8 5 4 2 1 3
Net settled derivative contracts – payments (38) (19) (16) (15) (15) (8)
Gross settled derivative contracts – receipts(b) 1,282 8 110 2 2 643
Gross settled derivative contracts – payments(b) (1,343) (41) (150) (31) (30) (680)
Total on balance sheet (17,961) (3,404) (2,487) (1,284) (1,882) (11,390)
Off balance sheet
Contractual lending commitments(c) (12,850) - - - - -
Total (30,811) (3,404) (2,487) (1,284) (1,882) (11,390)
(a) Comprised customer deposits, lease liabilities, trade and other payables, borrowings, and derivatives transferred to the Banking operations disposal group in the prior year and disposed of in the current year. Refer to Note 8.
(b) Gross settled derivative contracts have been re-presented to include mandatory breaks on certain derivatives.
(c) Contractual lending commitments in the prior year were included in the Banking operations disposal group.
The Group is not subject to covenants in relation to its facilities and borrowings. There is an element of seasonality in the Group’s operations, however the overall impact on liquidity is not considered significant.
The table below shows information about the timing of total expected undiscounted cash outflows in relation to insurance contract liabilities, irrespective of the measurement basis, based on current best
estimates. The phasing is based on current estimates and the actual timing of future settlement cash flows may differ from that disclosed below.
2025 2024*
£m % £m %
Due within one year 166 31 144 34
Due within one and two years 80 15 57 13
Due within two and three years 56 11 44 10
Due within three and four years 32 6 28 7
Due within four and five years 23 4 18 4
Due beyond five years 174 33 138 32
Total 531 100 429 100
* Comparatives have been re-presented from discounted to undiscounted liabilities.
Insurance contract liabilities issued and reinsurance contracts held have no amounts that are payable on demand.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 197 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 195.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
d) Insurance risk
Description of risk Management policy
Risks accepted through the provision of insurance products in return for a premium, exposed through the TU operates a separate risk framework with dedicated risk and compliance teams and a suite of TU risk
wholly-owned subsidiary, Tesco Underwriting Limited (TU). These risks may or may not occur as expected and policies to ensure that the TU insurance portfolio is operating within the agreed risk appetite.
the amount and timing of these risks are uncertain and determined by events outside of the Group’s control
(e.g. flood or vehicular accident).
Types of insurance risk
Risks Description of risks Mitigation
Underwriting Policies not priced correctly due to underestimating the frequency and/or severity The Group has large numbers of policyholders with homogeneous exposures such as car and home
of the claims and/or that payments are required under conditions that were not policies. Products are priced based on the Group’s knowledge using past exposures, historical losses (plus
anticipated. an appropriate allowance for incurred but not reported (IBNR) losses) and external data sources, with the
appropriate adjustments to reflect anticipated future market conditions and expenses.
Claims reserving Estimates of insurance liabilities prove to be insufficient through inaccurate The aim of the reserving policy is to provide estimates of insurance liabilities that are accurate and reliable
forecasting, adverse random variation and additional expenses. across each line of business and are consistent over the time period required to settle all the claims.
Provisions are monitored on an ongoing basis by a reserving committee and the TU board, and an annual
independent review is undertaken.
Claims management Claims management risk may arise in the event of inaccurate or incomplete case The Group’s approach to claims management focuses upon creating a successful balance between
reserving or settlement, poor customer service, claims fraud, ineffective or satisfying the needs of the customer against control of the overall cost of the provision of the service that
inefficient claim processes or excessive costs of handling claims. meets those needs in agreement with its service provider. Customers include both the insured as well as
others that believe the insured has breached a duty of care.
Reinsurance Reinsurance contracts, placed to reduce exposure to specific risks, events, and The reinsurance programme is subject to considerable scenario planning and approved by the Reinsurance
accumulations, fail to perform as planned and do not reduce the gross cost of Committee and the TU board. All reinsurers in the reinsurance programme have a minimum credit rating of A.
claims in terms of the limits purchased, by risks not being appropriately covered,
by reinsurance bad debts or by there being gaps in the programme.
Concentration of insurance risk
Concentration of insurance risk may exist where a particular event or series of events could impact significantly upon the Group’s liabilities. Such concentrations may arise from a single insurance contract or
through a small number of related contracts. The following are key categories of concentration risks that might result in significant impacts to the Group:
Category Description Mitigation
High-severity, low High-severity, low frequency events (e.g. natural disasters) represent a material risk Making appropriate allowance within the price calculated by underwriters and by purchasing a reinsurance
frequency event as the occurrence of such an event would have a significant adverse impact on TU’s programme that limits the impact of these events, using non-proportional reinsurance treaties to manage
concentrations cash flows and profitability. retention levels and the limits of protection.
Geographic and Material geographical concentrations of risk exist in property portfolios such that The Group only writes policies in the UK. TU models its exposure to this risk to estimate its probable
demographic natural disasters (e.g. floods) may give rise to a large number of material damage maximum loss and purchases reinsurance to significantly reduce its exposure to such events.
concentrations and business interruption claims.
Economic conditions The insurance portfolio exposes a potential accumulation of different risks in The Group aims to ensure it charges the right premium for the business underwritten and it focuses on
the event of difficult economic conditions or more challenging points in the maintaining prices in such difficult market conditions. It also monitors claims closely to identify any that
underwriting cycle. may be exaggerated or fraudulent.
Total aggregate exposure The total aggregate exposure that the Group is prepared to accept in relation to The exposures are monitored on a regular basis by reviewing reports which show the key aggregations to
concentrations of risk. which the Group is exposed and by using a number of modelling tools to monitor aggregation and simulate
catastrophe losses in order to measure the effectiveness of the reinsurance programmes, and to quantify
the net exposure. Additional stress and scenario tests are run using these models during the year.
TU has carried out sensitivity analyses on the reasonably possible changes in its key business drivers, including interest yields, expenses and gross loss ratio, as well as executing the stress and scenario testing
programme on the insurance risk as part of contingency planning. These do not indicate a material impact to the Group’s overall financial position and performance.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 198 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 196.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
Note 27 Financial risk management continued
e) Other risks
Risk Description of risk Management policy Measurement
Capital risk Ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns to shareholders Group capital Refer to Note 32 for the
and benefits for policyholders and other stakeholders, while protecting and The Group manages its capital structure (net debt plus equity) and makes value of Net debt, and
strengthening the Group balance sheet through the appropriate balance of adjustments to it: the Group statement
debt and equity funding, and ability to meet minimum capital requirements for – in light of changes to economic conditions and the strategic objectives of changes in equity for
regulated businesses. of the Group. the value of the Group’s
– through dividend payment to shareholders, buying back shares and equity.
cancelling them or issuing new shares. During the current financial year,
the Group continued the share buyback programme and cancelled these
shares (refer to Note 30).
– by raising finance in the public debt markets and borrowing centrally
and locally from financial institutions, using a variety of capital market
instruments and borrowing facilities to meet the requirements of each
local business.
Insurance capital
Solvency II (SII) came into force on 1 January 2016. It provides a framework for
managing and measuring the risks and the solvency position for all insurance
companies in the EU. Following the UK's departure from the EU, the SII
framework continues to be applied in the UK and its requirements are
applicable to TU. TU assesses its Solvency Capital Requirement (SCR) using
Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) Standard Formula (2024: Partial Internal
Model). TU also maintains a capital contingency plan supported by its direct
shareholder, Tesco Personal Finance Group Limited (TPFG). TPFG as the parent
entity of TU adheres to SII requirements and has complied with the supervisory
requirements of the PRA. During the year, the Group was compliant with the
externally imposed capital requirements.
Operational insurance risk The Group is inadequately protected from liabilities arising from unforeseen events The Group purchased assets, earnings and combined liability protection from Refer to Note 23 for
in its operations. the open insurance market for higher value losses only. details on operational
insurance provisions.
The risk not transferred to the insurance market is retained within the Group
with some cover being provided by the Group’s captive insurance company,
ELH Insurance Limited in Guernsey, which is consolidated in the Group financial
statements, covering assets, earnings and combined liability.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 199 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 197.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
Note 28 Share-based payments
The table below shows amounts charged to the Group income statement in respect of share-based The table below presents the components of share-based payments recognised in the Group
payments: statement of changes in equity:
2025 2024 2025 2024
£m £m £m £m
Income statement (Increase)/decrease in own shares held* 239 184
Equity-settled share-based payment charge(a) 119 123
Cash-settled National Insurance contributions(b) 17 5 Shares delivered to employees (239) (184)
136 128 Cash received from employees exercising SAYE options 69 53
(a) Includes £4m (2024: £6m) in relation to discontinued operations. Share-based payments charge to the income statement 119 123
(b) Includes £1m (2024: £2m) in relation to discontinued operations. Movements in shares withheld to settle employee tax 2 4
The table below shows amounts included in the Group cash flow statement in relation to share-based Reclassification - 15
payments and own shares purchased for share schemes: Increase/(decrease) to retained earnings (49) 11
2025 2024
£m £m Included in the Group statement of changes in equity 190 195
Share-based payment charge included in operating profit/(loss) (136) (128) * Decrease in own shares held is the gross amount of shares that the employees are entitled to receive.
Share-based payments non-cash movement 37 78
Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables* 99 50
Included in Group operating cash flows - -
Cash paid to purchase own shares including related fees and taxes (123) (146)
Cash received from employees exercising SAYE options 69 53
Included in Group financing cash flows (54) (93)
* Shares withheld from employees in order to settle their tax liability and National Insurance.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 200 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 198.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
Note 28 Share-based payments continued
Share option, share bonus and incentive schemes
The Company had nine share option schemes and four discretionary share award schemes in operation during the financial year, all of which are equity-settled schemes:
Arrangement Participants Term Vesting requirements
Savings-related option schemes
The Savings-related Share Option Scheme (1981) UK colleagues Three or five years. The options are capable of being exercised at the
The Irish Savings-related Share Option Scheme (2000) ROI colleagues Three or five years. end of the term at a subscription price of not less
than 80% of the average of the middle-market
The Savings-related Share Option Scheme (2021) UK colleagues Three or five years.
quotations of an Ordinary share over the three
The International Savings-related Share Option Scheme (2021) ROI colleagues Three or five years. dealing days immediately preceding the offer date.
The Global Save As You Earn Plan (2023) India and CE colleagues Three years.
Discretionary option schemes(a)
The Group Bonus Plan Selected senior executives and senior Granted as a proportion of annual bonus following Dependent on the achievement of corporate
managers the completion of a required service period and is performance, individual targets and continuous
normally exercisable between three and 10 years employment.
from the date of grant for nil consideration. No
further options will be granted under this scheme.
The Performance Share Plan (2011) Selected senior executives and senior Normally exercisable between the vesting date(s) Conditional upon the achievement of specified
managers set at grant and 10 years from the date of grant performance targets over a three-year period
for nil consideration. No further options will be and/or continuous employment.
granted under this scheme.
The Long-Term Incentive Plan (2015) Selected senior executives and senior Normally exercisable between the vesting date(s)
managers set at grant and 10 years from the date of grant for
nil consideration.
The Booker Group PLC Performance Share Plan (2008) Selected Booker senior colleagues (Booker) Normally exercisable between the third anniversary Conditional upon the achievement of specified
(Booker PSP and CSOP) of the original date of grant and 10 years from performance targets over a three-year period and
the date of grant for nil consideration. No further continuous employment. Company Share Option
options will be granted under this scheme. Plan options (CSOP options) which are linked to the
Booker PSP options are exercisable at a subscription
price equivalent to the market value of the Booker
Shares at the time of grant.
Discretionary share award schemes(b)
The Performance Share Plan (2011) and the Long Term Selected senior executives and senior Awards made under these plans will normally vest Conditional on the achievement of specified
Incentive Plan (2021) managers on the vesting date(s) set on the date of the award performance targets over a three-year performance
for nil consideration. period and/or continuous employment.
The Group Bonus Plan and Deferred Bonus Plan (2019) Selected senior executives and senior Granted based on a percentage of salary, which Conditional on completion of continuous
managers is determined by the achievement of corporate employment and achievement of corporate and
and individual performance targets. The fair value individual performance targets.
of shares awarded under these schemes is their
market value on the date of award. Expected
dividends are not incorporated into the fair value.
(a) The Executive Directors participate in short-term bonus and long-term incentive schemes designed to align their interests with those of shareholders. Full details of these schemes can be found in the Directors’ remuneration report. Refer to pages 90 to 122.
(b) Until 2017, nil-cost options were awarded to selected senior executives using the Group Bonus Plan and Performance Share Plan, and conditional share awards were granted to selected senior executives and senior managers. Since 2018, conditional share awards have
been granted to all eligible colleagues.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 201 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 199.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
The following tables reconcile the number of share options outstanding and the weighted average exercise price (WAEP):
For the 52 weeks ended 22 February 2025
Irish Savings and International Booker Group PLC
Savings-related Savings-related Nil cost Global Savings-related Performance
Share Option Schemes Share Option Schemes Share Option Schemes Share Option Schemes Share Plan Scheme
Options WAEP Options WAEP Options WAEP Options WAEP Options WAEP
Outstanding at 24 February 2024 192,162,445 205.24 6,837,146 209.55 803,031 - 1,292,354 220.00 258,828 -
Granted 48,584,817 279.00 1,480,934 279.00 21,358 - 622,815 279.00 - -
Forfeited (16,000,990) 213.11 (855,791) 210.44 - - (53,571) 221.33 (24,533) -
Exercised (33,778,419) 196.21 (1,181,929) 196.65 (824,389) - - - (15,887) -
Outstanding at 22 February 2025 190,967,853 224.95 6,280,360 228.24 - - 1,861,598 239.70 218,408 -
Exercise price range (pence) 182.00 to 279.00 182.00 to 279.00 - 220.00 to 279.00 -
Weighted average remaining contractual life (years)* 2.71 2.43 - 2.94 -
Exercisable at 22 February 2025 39,903 193.60 1,316 198.00 - - - - 218,408 -
Exercise price range (pence) 188.00 to 198.00 198.00 to 198.00 - - -
Weighted average remaining contractual life (years)* - - - - -
* Contractual life represents the period from award to the scheme end date. Certain schemes may be exercised later than vesting date at the discretion of the individual.
Share options were exercised on a regular basis throughout the financial year. The average share price during the 52 weeks ended 22 February 2025 was 335.25p (24 February 2024: 270.31p).
For the 52 weeks ended 24 February 2024
Irish Savings and International Booker Group PLC
Savings-related Savings-related NII cost Global Savings-related Performance
Share Option Schemes Share Option Schemes Share Option Schemes Share Option Scheme Share Plan Scheme
Options WAEP Options WAEP Options WAEP Options WAEP Options WAEP
Outstanding at 25 February 2023 176,035,795 199.35 6,724,207 205.67 2,111,675 - - - 366,639 -
Granted 61,056,367 220.00 1,931,876 220.00 69,131 - 1,292,671 220.00 - -
Forfeited (19,939,606) 200.81 (893,588) 206.55 - (317) 220.00 (22,659) -
Exercised (24,990,111) 203.36 (925,349) 206.00 (1,377,775) - - - (85,152) -
Outstanding at 24 February 2024 192,162,445 205.24 6,837,146 209.55 803,031 - 1,292,354 220.00 258,828 -
Exercise price range (pence) 168.00 to 242.00 182.00 to 260.00 - 220.00 to 220.00 -
Weighted average remaining contractual life (years)* 2.79 2.50 2.08 3.60 -
Exercisable at 24 February 2024 49,950 206.24 1,712 219.00 803,031 - - - 258,828 -
Exercise price range (pence) 168.00 to 219.00 219.00 to 219.00 - - -
Weighted average remaining contractual life (years)* - - 2.08 - -
Refer to previous table for footnote.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 202 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 200.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
Note 28 Share-based payments continued Note 29 Post-employment benefits
The fair value of savings-related share options schemes is estimated at the date of grant using the Pensions
Black-Scholes option pricing model. The following table gives the assumptions applied to the options The Group operates a variety of post-employment benefit arrangements, covering both funded and
granted in the respective periods shown. unfunded defined benefit schemes and defined contribution schemes.
Defined contribution
2025 2024
SAYE SAYE Defined contribution schemes are open to all Tesco employees in the UK and ROI.
Expected dividend yield (%) 4.21-4.42 4.48-4.61 Under the Group’s defined contribution pension schemes, employees of the Group pay contributions
Expected volatility (%) 19.2-20.8 19.35-21.42 to an independently administered fund, into which the Group also pays contributions based upon a
Risk-free interest rate (%) 4.41-4.49 3.59-3.74 fixed percentage of the employee’s contributions. The Group has no further payment obligations once
its contributions have been paid. Contributions paid for defined contribution schemes in continuing
Expected life of option (years) 3 or 5 3 or 5
operations of £454m (2024: £415m) have been recognised in the Group income statement. This
Weighted average fair value of options granted (pence) 77.71 66.76
includes £181m (2024: £166m) of salaries paid as pension contributions.
Probability of forfeiture (%) 6-12 6-12
Defined benefit schemes
Share price (pence) 349.10 290.50
The Group has a defined benefit pension deficit of £307m (2024: £657m), and a defined benefit
Weighted average exercise price (pence) 279.00 220.00 pension surplus of £56m (2024: £22m), comprising a number of schemes. The most significant
schemes are for the Group’s employees in the UK and ROI, which are closed to future accrual.
Volatility is a measure of the amount by which a price is expected to fluctuate during a period. The The defined benefit pension deficit in the UK represents 122% (2024: 104%) of the net Group deficit.
measure of volatility used in the Group’s option pricing models is the annualised standard deviation
United Kingdom
of the continuously compounded rates of return on the share over a period of time. In estimating the
The principal scheme within the Group is the Tesco PLC Pension Scheme (the Scheme), the assets of
future volatility of the Company’s share price, the Board considers the historical volatility of the share
which are held as a segregated fund and administered by the Trustee.
price over the most recent period that is generally commensurate with the expected term of the
option, taking into account the remaining contractual life of the option. The Scheme is established under trust law and has a corporate trustee (the Trustee) that is required
to run the Scheme in accordance with the Scheme’s Trust Deed and Rules and to comply with all
The number and weighted average fair value (WAFV) of share bonuses granted during the financial
relevant legislation. Responsibility for the governance of the Scheme lies with the Trustee. The Trustee
year were:
is a company whose directors comprise:
2025 2024 1. representatives of the Group;
Number WAFV Number WAFV 2. independent trustees; and
of shares pence of shares pence 3. r epresentatives of the Scheme participants, in accordance with its articles of association and
Deferred Bonus Plan 17,554,675 306.48 15,144,646 270.27 UK pension law.
Performance Share Plan and Long-Term Incentive Plan 21,370,918 309.88 25,497,401 253.25
On completion of a comprehensive strategic review of the Scheme’s long-term needs, the Trustee
appointed Schroders with effect from 28 June 2024 as the Scheme’s principal Outsourced Chief
Investment Officer (OCIO), under an investment management agreement. Schroders works with the
Trustee to implement the Scheme’s investment strategy and deliver security for the Scheme’s members.
As set out in the Annual Report and Group financial statements for 2024, the Group has continued to
monitor the Virgin Media vs NTL Pension Trustees and other related court cases. Following the Court
of Appeal’s decision to uphold the ruling of the High Court against Virgin Media, the Group has
continued to assess the extent to which the defined benefit schemes may be impacted by the
outcome of these cases. For the Group’s main scheme (Tesco PLC Pension Scheme), there are no
findings from the work undertaken to date that would require any adjustment to the Group’s financial
statements. Work is ongoing with regards to the smaller schemes within the UK (Booker & Budgens),
however given their comparable size, the Group does not anticipate any material findings.
Management will continue to monitor developments of the associated court cases and will assess any
change in risk and potential impact on the Group as required.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 203 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 201.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
Scheme funding Risks
The Group considers two measures of the pension surplus/deficit. The accounting position is shown The Group bears a number of risks in relation to the Scheme, which are described below:
on the Group balance sheet. The funding position, calculated at the triennial funding valuation, is used
to agree contributions made to the schemes. The two measures will vary because they are for Risk Description of risk Mitigation
different purposes and are calculated at different dates and in different ways. The key calculation Investment The Scheme’s defined benefit The Trustee and the Group regularly monitor the funding
difference is that the funding position considers the expected returns of scheme assets when obligation is calculated using a position and operate a diversified investment strategy.
calculating the liability, whereas the accounting position calculated under IAS 19 discounts liabilities discount rate set with reference
The Trustee and the Group take a balanced approach to
based on high quality corporate bond yields. to corporate bond yields. If the investment risk and have a long-term plan to significantly
return on the Scheme’s assets
The most recent completed triennial funding valuation of the Scheme was performed as at 31 March underperforms this rate, the reduce the investment risk within the Scheme.
2022 using the projected unit credit method. The funding position was a surplus of £0.9bn. The accounting deficit will increase. The Trustee considers climate risk as one of the key
Scheme remained in a funding surplus as at 22 February 2025. investment risks faced by the Scheme and has set up a
If the Scheme’s assets
Responsible Investment Committee to consider
Subsequent to this triennial funding valuation it was agreed that no further pension deficit underperform the expected
climate-related issues relating to the Scheme.
contributions would be required, with contributions next expected to be assessed at the 31 March return for the funding valuation,
2025 triennial review. The Group paid £17m per annum (2024: £17m) to meet expenses of the Scheme, this may require additional The Scheme has also made a commitment to aim for
including the Pension Protection Fund levy. contributions to be made by investments to be net-zero by 2050. Further details on the
the Group. metrics, targets and actions taken in relation to climate risk
The most recent triennial funding valuation of the Booker Pension Scheme showed a deficit of £49m at can be seen in the Scheme’s Climate Change Report.
31 March 2024, with agreement for the current deficit contributions of £17m per annum to reduce to Inflation The Scheme’s defined benefit As part of the investment strategy, the Trustee aims to
£5m per annum from April 2026. The most recent triennial funding valuation of the Budgens Pension obligation is linked to inflation. mitigate this risk through investment in a liability-driven
Scheme showed a surplus of £2m at 31 March 2024. The Company and the Trustee have agreed that A higher rate of expected investment (LDI) portfolio.
no deficit contributions are currently required. long-term inflation will therefore
The portfolio invests in assets which increase in value as
lead to higher liabilities, both for
IFRIC 14 inflation expectations increase. This mitigates the impact
the IAS 19 and funding liability.
For schemes in an accounting surplus position, these surpluses are recognised on the balance sheet of any adverse movement in long-term inflation
in line with IFRIC 14, as the Group has an unconditional legal right to any future economic benefits by If the Scheme’s funding liability expectations.
way of future refunds following a gradual settlement. increases, this may require The Scheme’s holdings are designed to hedge against
additional contributions to be
inflation risk for most of the funded liabilities.
Maturity profile of the defined benefit obligation made by the Group.
The estimated duration of the Scheme defined benefit obligation is an indicator of the weighted Interest A decrease in corporate bond As part of the investment strategy, the Trustee aims to
average term of benefit payments after discounting. For the Scheme, this is 15 years. rate yields in isolation is expected mitigate this risk through investment in an LDI portfolio.
to increase the accounting
Around 34% of the undiscounted benefits are due to be paid beyond 30 years’ time, with the last The portfolio invests in assets which increase in value as
deficit. Similarly, a decrease in
payments expected to be over 80 years from now. The table below sets out the estimated interest rates decrease. The Scheme’s holdings are
gilt yields in isolation is
undiscounted benefit payments expected to be paid out over the life of the Scheme: designed to hedge against interest rate risk for most of
expected to have an adverse
the funded liabilities.
impact on the funding position
2025 2024 of the Scheme. This may lead Because the aim of the portfolio is to mitigate risk for the
£m £m
to additional contributions funding position, ineffectiveness in hedging for the
Within the next 12 months 393 363 being made by the Group. accounting deficit can arise where corporate bond and
Between one and 15 years 8,888 8,361 gilt yields diverge. This is partially offset by the Scheme’s
Between 15 and 30 years 13,000 12,774 holdings in corporate bonds.
Between 30 and 45 years 8,736 8,893 Using an LDI portfolio means a rise in interest rates can
lead to collateral calls. The Trustee and the Group
Over 45 years 2,530 2,802
regularly monitor and manage the level of liquidity to
Total expected undiscounted benefit payments 33,547 33,193 ensure it remains appropriate.
Life The Scheme’s obligations are To reduce this risk, changes to future benefits were
The defined benefit obligation held by the Scheme is broken down as follows: expectancy to provide benefits for the life introduced in June 2012 to increase the age at which
of the member and so members can take their full pension by around two years.
% increases in life expectancy
The Trustee and the Group regularly monitor the impact
Deferred members 66 will lead to a higher defined
of changes in longevity on the Scheme defined benefit
Current pensioners 34 benefit obligation. obligation.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 204 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 202.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
Note 29 Post-employment benefits continued The base tables used in calculating the mortality assumptions are different for various categories of
members, as shown below:
The Group operates an operations and audit pensions committee to further strengthen the Scheme’s
Trustee governance and provide greater oversight and stronger internal control over the Group’s risks.
Pensioner Non-Pensioner
A second committee, the Group pensions committee provides an additional layer of governance and
risk management. Further mitigation of the risks is provided by external advisors and the Trustee who Male Staff 96% of SAPS S3 normal heavy 100% of SAPS S3 normal heavy
considers the funding position, fund performance and impacts of any regulatory changes. Senior Manager 112% of SAPS S3 normal light 113% of SAPS S3 normal light
Female Staff 105% of SAPS S3 normal heavy 109% of SAPS S3 normal heavy
Scheme principal assumptions
Financial assumptions Senior Manager 87% of SAPS S3 all middle 87% of SAPS S3 all middle
The principal assumptions, on a weighted average basis, used by external actuaries to value the
The following table illustrates the life expectancy of an average member retiring at age 65 at the
defined benefit obligation of the Scheme were as follows:
balance sheet date and a member reaching age 65 at the balance sheet date +25 years. A comparison
between the two retiree dates illustrates the expected improvements in mortality over the next
2025 2024
25 years.
% %
Discount rate 5.7 5.1
2025 2024
Price inflation 3.0 2.9
Years Years
Rate of increase in deferred pensions* 2.6 2.5 Retiring at the balance sheet date at age 65: Male 19.6 19.5
Rate of increase in pensions in payment* Female 22.2 22.1
Benefits accrued before 1 June 2012 2.9 2.8 Retiring at the balance sheet date +25 years at age 65: Male 20.6 20.6
Benefits accrued after 1 June 2012 2.6 2.5 Female 23.4 23.3
* In excess of any guaranteed minimum pension (GMP) element.
Sensitivity analysis of significant actuarial assumptions
Discount rate
The sensitivity of significant assumptions upon the Scheme defined benefit obligation are detailed below:
The discount rate for the Scheme is determined by reference to market yields of high-quality
corporate bonds of suitable currency and term to the Scheme cash flows and extrapolated based on
2025 2024
the trend observable in corporate bond yields.
Financial assumptions – Increase/(decrease) in UK defined Discount rate Inflation Rate Discount rate Inflation Rate
Inflation benefit obligation £m £m £m £m
The inflation assumption is used to determine increases in pensions linked to RPI and CPI inflation Impact of 0.1% increase of the assumption (157) 146 (191) 167
within sections of the Scheme, subject to relevant maximum and minimum increases. Impact of 0.1% decrease of the assumption 168 (135) 191 (167)
RPI inflation is derived by reference to the difference between fixed-interest and index-linked Impact of 1.0% increase of the assumption (1,459) 1,492 (1,686) 1,770
long-term government bonds. To account for the premium that investors are willing to pay to mitigate Impact of 1.0% decrease of the assumption 1,829 (1,279) 2,153 (1,483)
the risk that inflation is higher than expected, the inflation assumption incorporates an inflation risk
premium. CPI inflation is set by reference to RPI.
2025 2024
The Group uses a bifurcated approach to pre- and post-2030 assumptions, reflecting the impact of Mortality assumptions – Increase/(decrease) in UK defined benefit obligation £m £m
the RPI reforms from 2030 onwards. In consultation with external actuaries, the inflation risk premium Impact of 1 year increase in longevity 292 335
has been set at 0.3% p.a. pre-2030 and 0.5% p.a. post-2030, which is a weighted average of 0.44% Impact of 1 year decrease in longevity (325) (371)
(2024: 0.44%). The CPI differential has been set as 1.0% p.a. pre-2030 and 0.1% p.a. post-2030, which is
The sensitivities reflect the range of recent assumption movements and illustrate that the financial
a weighted average of 0.43% lower than RPI (2024: 0.46%).
assumption sensitivities do not move in a linear fashion. Movements in the defined benefit obligation
Mortality assumptions from discount rate and inflation rate changes may be partially offset by movements in assets.
The Trustee’s actuary conducted a mortality analysis of the Scheme as part of the triennial funding
Overseas
valuation process. Subsequent to this analysis, the Group adopted the best estimate assumptions for
The Group operates defined benefit schemes in ROI, which are closed to future accrual. An external
the calculation of the defined benefit obligation for the main UK scheme.
actuary, using the projected unit credit method, carried out the latest assessment of the ROI
The mortality assumptions used are based on tables that have been projected to 2018 with CMI 2020 schemes as at 22 February 2025. At the financial year end, the accounting surplus relating to ROI was
improvements. In addition, the allowance for future mortality improvements from 2018 has been £46m (2024: £16m).
updated to be in line with CMI 2023, with a long-term improvement rate of 1.00% p.a., a 0% weighting
applied to both 2020 and 2021 data and a 25% weighting applied to 2022 and 2023, reflecting the
expectation that the COVID-19 pandemic has had an impact on future life expectancies.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 205 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 203.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
Post-employment benefits other than pensions
The Group operates a scheme offering post-retirement healthcare benefits. The cost of providing these benefits has been accounted for on a similar basis to that used for defined benefit pension schemes.
The accounting deficit as at 22 February 2025 of £3m (24 February 2024: £4m) was determined in accordance with the advice of external actuaries. During both the current and prior year, £nil was charged to
the Group income statement and no benefits were paid.
Plan assets
The Group’s pension schemes hold assets that both provide returns and mitigate risk, including the volatility of future pension payments.
As a result of reviewing the Group’s strategic objectives, the Group transitioned the management of assets from Tesco Pension Investment Limited (TPI) to Schroders plc (Schroders) at the end of June 2024.
There has been no impact on the value of the assets as a result of the transfer of ownership.
The table below shows a breakdown of the combined investments held by the Group’s schemes:
2025 2024
Quoted Unquoted Total Quoted Unquoted Total
£m £m £m % £m £m £m %
Equities
UK 47 - 47 - 58 - 58 -
Europe 190 - 190 2 55 - 55 -
Rest of the world 1,421 - 1,421 12 1,303 - 1,303 12
1,658 - 1,658 14 1,416 - 1,416 12
Bonds
Government 259 - 259 2 570 - 570 5
Corporates – investment grade 888 - 888 8 875 - 875 7
Corporates – non-investment grade 433 - 433 4 155 - 155 1
1,580 - 1,580 14 1,600 - 1,600 13
Property
UK - 666 666 6 - 854 854 7
Rest of the world - 392 392 3 - 521 521 4
- 1,058 1,058 9 - 1,375 1,375 11
Alternative assets
Hedge funds - - - - - 30 30 -
Private equity - 864 864 7 - 982 982 8
Other 119 1,679 1,798 15 93 1,701 1,794 15
119 2,543 2,662 22 93 2,713 2,806 23
LDI portfolio 6,327 (2,509) 3,818 33 5,723 (1,527) 4,196 35
Cash 939 - 939 8 763 - 763 6
Total fair value of plan assets 10,623 1,092 11,715 100 9,595 2,561 12,156 100
Quoted assets are those with a quoted price in an active market. Unquoted assets are valued in accordance with IFRS 13 ‘Fair value measurement’, using the most appropriate level within the fair value
hierarchy based on the specifics of the asset class, and in line with industry standard guidelines, including the RICS methodology for property and the IPEV guidelines for private equity.
The LDI portfolio consists of assets, including gilts and index-linked gilts and money market funds, of the value of £7,102m (2024: £6,556m) and associated repurchase agreements and swaps of £(3,284)m
(2024: £(2,360)m). Other alternative assets include infrastructure and private credit investments. Other derivatives are included in the asset category to which they relate, reflecting the underlying nature and
exposure of the derivative. The fall in fair value is primarily attributable to the increase in gilt yields during the year.
The plan assets include £185m (2024: £239m) relating to property used by the Group. Group property with net carrying value of £820m (2024: £829m) (refer to Note 12) and a value to the Scheme of at least
£775m (2024: £775m) is held as security in favour of the Scheme.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 206 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 204.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
Note 29 Post-employment benefits continued
Movement in the Group pension surplus/(deficit) during the financial period
Fair value of plan assets Defined benefit obligation Net defined benefit surplus/(deficit)
2025 2024 2025 2024 2025 2024
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Opening balance 12,156 13,025 (12,787) (13,416) (631) (391)
Current service cost - - (17) (15) (17) (15)
Finance income/(cost) 601 619 (633) (637) (32) (18)
Included in the Group income statement 601 619 (650) (652) (49) (33)
Remeasurement gain/(loss):
Financial assumptions gain/(loss) - - 981 720 981 720
Demographic assumptions gain/(loss) - - 17 261 17 261
Experience gain/(loss) - - (62) (182) (62) (182)
Return on plan assets excluding finance income (550) (1,050) - - (550) (1,050)
Foreign currency translation (9) (10) 8 10 (1) -
Included in the Group statement of comprehensive income/(loss) (559) (1,060) 944 809 385 (251)
Employer contributions 17 15 - - 17 15
Additional employer contributions 23 24 - - 23 24
Benefits paid (523) (467) 530 472 7 5
Other movements (483) (428) 530 472 47 44
Closing balance 11,715 12,156 (11,963) (12,787) (248) (631)
Withholding tax on surplus(a) (3) (4)
Closing balance, net of withholding tax (251) (635)
Consisting of:
Schemes in deficit (307) (657)
Schemes in surplus(b) 56 22
Deferred tax asset/(liability)(c) 71 162
Surplus/(deficit) in schemes at the end of the year, net of deferred tax (180) (473)
(a) The movement in the year is recognised through other comprehensive income in remeasurements of defined benefit pension schemes.
(b) Schemes in surplus in the UK are presented on the balance sheet net of a 25% (2024: 35%) withholding tax.
(c) Including £(6)m deferred tax liability relating to the ROI scheme in surplus where no withholding tax is applicable (2024: £(2)m).
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 207 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 205.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
Note 30 Share capital and other reserves
Share capital
2025 2024
Ordinary shares of 61/3p each Ordinary shares of 61/3p each
Number £m Number £m
Allotted, called-up and fully paid:
At the beginning of the year 7,038,930,440 445 7,318,341,195 463
Shares cancelled (302,088,678) (19) (279,410,755) (18)
At the end of the year 6,736,841,762 426 7,038,930,440 445
No shares were issued during the current or prior financial year in relation to share options or bonus awards. The holders of Ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and
are entitled to one vote per share at general meetings of the Company.
The Group has a share forfeiture programme, following the completion of a tracing and notification exercise to any shareholders who have not had contact with the Company over the past 12 years,
in accordance with the provisions set out in the Company’s Articles of Association. Under the share forfeiture programme, the shares and dividends associated with shares of untraced members are forfeited,
with the resulting proceeds transferred to the Group to use for good causes in line with the Group’s Sustainability strategy. During the current financial year, the Group received £nil (2024: £2m) proceeds from
the sale of untraced shares and £nil (2024: £2m) write-back of unclaimed dividends, which are reflected in retained earnings.
As at 22 February 2025, the Directors were authorised, on behalf of the Company, to purchase up to a maximum in aggregate of 704 million (2024: 732 million) Ordinary shares until the conclusion of the
2025 AGM.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 208 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 206.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
Note 30 Share capital and other reserves continued
Other reserves
The tables below set out the movements in other reserves:
Capital
redemption Insurance finance
reserve Hedging reserve Translation reserve Own shares held* Merger reserve reserve Total
Notes £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 24 February 2024 61 75 206 (315) 3,090 14 3,131
Other comprehensive income/(loss)
Retranslation of net assets of overseas subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates - - (89) - - - (89)
Impact of net investment hedges - - 33 - - - 33
Gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges - 40 - - - - 40
Cash flow hedges reclassified and reported in the Group income statement - (69) - - - - (69)
Finance income/(expenses) from reinsurance contracts held - - - - - 1 1
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 7 - 7 - - - - 7
Total other comprehensive income/(loss) - (22) (56) - - 1 (77)
Transfer from translation reserve to retained earnings - - 36 - - - 36
Inventory cash flow hedge movements
(Gains)/losses transferred to the cost of inventory - (4) - - - - (4)
Total inventory cash flow hedge movements - (4) - - - - (4)
Transactions with owners
Own shares purchased for cancellation - - - (1,016) - - (1,016)
Own shares cancelled 19 - - 1,016 - - 1,035
Own shares purchased for share schemes - - - (204) - - (204)
Share-based payments 28 - - - 239 - - 239
Total transactions with owners 19 - - 35 - - 54
At 22 February 2025 80 49 186 (280) 3,090 15 3,140
* Includes 37.1 million shares held by the Tesco International Employee Benefit Trust (2024: 70.0 million). The number of shares held by the Tesco International Employee Benefit Trust represents 0.55% of called-up share capital at the end of the year (2024: 0.99%).
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 209 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 207.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
Capital
redemption Insurance finance
reserve Hedging reserve Translation reserve Own shares held* Merger reserve reserve Total
Notes £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 25 February 2023 43 27 322 (359) 3,090 16 3,139
Other comprehensive income/(loss)
Retranslation of net assets of overseas subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates - - (157) - - - (157)
Impact of net investment hedges - - 41 - - - 41
Gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges - (14) - - - - (14)
Cash flow hedges reclassified and reported in the Group income statement - (56) - - - - (56)
Finance income/(expenses) from insurance contracts issued - - - - - (4) (4)
Finance income/(expenses) from reinsurance contracts held - - - - - 1 1
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 7 - (5) - - - 1 (4)
Total other comprehensive income/(loss) - (75) (116) - - (2) (193)
Transfer from hedging reserve to retained earnings - 44 - - - - 44
Inventory cash flow hedge movements
(Gains)/losses transferred to the cost of inventory - 79 - - - - 79
Total inventory cash flow hedge movements - 79 - - - - 79
Transactions with owners
Own shares purchased for cancellation - - - (752) - - (752)
Own shares cancelled 18 - - 752 - - 770
Own shares purchased for share schemes - - - (140) - - (140)
Share-based payments 28 - - - 184 - - 184
Total transactions with owners 18 - - 44 - - 62
At 24 February 2024 61 75 206 (315) 3,090 14 3,131
Refer to previous table for footnotes.
Own shares held
The own shares held represents shares in Tesco PLC purchased from the market and held by the Tesco International Employee Benefit Trust to satisfy share awards under the Group’s share scheme plans
(refer to Note 28), and shares purchased for cancellation as part of the share buyback programme. Shares purchased for cancellation are included in own shares held until cancellation, at which point the
consideration is transferred to retained earnings, and the nominal value of the shares is transferred from share capital to the capital redemption reserve. Own shares held can include equity elements of
forward contracts where the Group has an obligation to purchase its own shares.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 210 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 208.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
Note 30 Share capital and other reserves continued Note 31 Related party transactions
Own shares held continued Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been
302.1 million (2024: 279.4 million) shares were purchased for cancellation at an average price of £3.36 eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note. Transactions between the Group
per share (2024: £2.69). This represented 4.5% of the called-up share capital as at 22 February 2025 and its joint ventures and associates are disclosed below:
(24 February 2024: 4.0%). The total consideration was £1,016m (2024: £752m) including expenses of
Transactions
£16m (2024: £2m).
Joint ventures Associates
The table below presents the reconciliation of own shares purchased for share schemes between the
2025 2024 2025 2024
Group statement of changes in equity and the Group cash flow statement:
£m £m £m £m
Sales to related parties 645 606 - -
2025 2024
Own shares purchased for share schemes £m £m Purchases from related parties 109 126 - -
Included in the Group statement of changes in equity (204) (140) Dividends received 2 9 - -
Payments in relation to prior year financial liabilities - (55) Injection of equity funding 10 9 5 -
Shares withheld to settle employee tax 81 49
Sales to related parties consist of service/management fees and loan interest.
Cash received from employees exercising SAYE options 69 53
Transactions between the Group and the Group’s pension plans are disclosed in Note 29.
Included in the Group cash flow statement (54) (93)
Balances
Capital redemption reserve
The capital redemption reserve relates to the repurchase and cancellation of shares of the Company. Joint ventures Associates
During the financial year, the aggregate nominal value of shares cancelled and transferred to the 2025 2024 2025 2024
capital redemption reserve was £19m (2024: £18m). £m £m £m £m
Amounts owed to related parties (7) (7) - -
Merger reserve
The merger reserve represents the difference between the market value and nominal value of shares Amounts owed by related parties 57 80 - -
issued for the acquisition of Booker on 2 March 2018. Lease liabilities payable to related parties(a) (1,840) (1,844) - -
Insurance finance reserve Loans to related parties(b) 97 96 - -
Insurance finance reserve includes the impact of changes in market discount rates on insurance and (a) Lease liabilities payable to related parties represent leases entered into by the Group for properties held by joint ventures.
reinsurance contract assets and liabilities. Refer to Note 14 for further details.
(b) A 12-month ECL allowance is recorded on initial recognition. In the current and prior financial years, the ECL allowance was
immaterial.
Amounts owed to and owed by related parties are measured at amortised cost and the carrying
values approximate fair value. The undiscounted cash flow amounts owed to related parties are due
within one year and do not differ from the amounts included in the table above.
A number of the Group’s subsidiaries are members of one or more partnerships to whom the
provisions of the Partnerships (Accounts) Regulations 2008 apply. The financial statements for those
partnerships have been consolidated into these financial statements pursuant to Regulation 7 of
the Regulations.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 211 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 209.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
Transactions with key management personnel
Members of the Board of Directors and Executive Committee of Tesco PLC are deemed to be key management personnel.
Cost of key management personnel compensation for the financial year was as follows:
2025 2024
£m £m
Salaries and short-term benefits 28 28
Pensions and cash in lieu of pensions 1 1
Share-based payments 21 22
Joining costs and loss of office costs 1 -
51 51
Attributable to:
The Board of Directors (including Non-executive Directors) 18 13
Executive Committee (members not on the Board of Directors) 33 38
51 51
During the year, 5,840,408 (2024: 7,586,273) performance shares and 1,990,366 (2024: 2,302,633) bonus shares were granted to key management personnel under the Performance Share Plan and Deferred
Bonus Plan 2019, respectively. Vesting will be conditional on the achievement of specified performance targets over a three-year performance period and/or continuous employment. The cost of these awards
will be spread over the vesting period.
Note 32 Analysis of changes in net debt
The Group’s Net debt APM is defined in the Glossary.
2025 2024
£m £m
Borrowings, excluding overdrafts (6,094) (6,407)
Lease liabilities (7,716) (7,622)
Net financing derivatives 602 544
Liabilities from financing activities (13,208) (13,485)
Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet 2,255 2,340
Overdrafts(a) (856) (812)
Cash and cash equivalents (including overdrafts) in the cash flow statement 1,399 1,528
Short-term investments 2,223 2,128
Joint venture loans 97 96
Interest and other receivables 19 23
Net operating and investing derivatives 16 26
Net debt APM(b) (9,454) (9,684)
(a) Overdraft balances are included within borrowings in the Group balance sheet, and within cash and cash equivalents in the Group cash flow statement. Refer to Note 19.
(b) Following the disposal of the Group’s Banking operations, Net debt is now presented on a Group continuing operations basis including Insurance and Money Services, rather than on a Retail basis including Retail discontinued operations. The comparative has been restated.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 212 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 210.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
Note 32 Analysis of changes in net debt continued
The tables below set out the movements in liabilities arising from financing activities:
Borrowings, Net financing Liabilities from
excluding derivative financial Share purchase Group financing
overdrafts Lease liabilities instruments(a) obligations(b) activities(a)
£m £m £m £m £m
At 24 February 2024 (6,407) (7,622) 544 - (13,485)
Cash flows arising from financing activities 347 600 (32) 1,016 1,931
Cash flows arising from operating activities:
Interest paid 210 377 85 - 672
Non-cash movements:
Fair value gains/(losses) (92) - 96 - 4
Foreign exchange 58 25 - - 83
Interest income/(charge) (210) (377) (91) - (678)
Acquisitions and disposals - (5) - - (5)
Lease additions, terminations, modifications and reassessments - (714) - - (714)
Share purchase agreements - - - (1,016) (1,016)
At 22 February 2025 (6,094) (7,716) 602 - (13,208)
(a) Net financing derivatives comprise those derivatives which hedge the Group’s exposures in respect of lease liabilities and borrowings. Net operating and investing derivatives of £16m (2024: £26m), which form part of the Group’s Net debt APM, are not included in liabilities
from Group financing activities.
(b) Share purchase obligations form part of the liabilities arising from the Group’s financing activities, but do not form part of Net debt. Cash flows arising from financing activities exclude £(91)m (2024: £(91)m) cash outflows relating to other cancellable arrangements and
prepayments, and £69m (2024: £53m) cash received from employees exercising SAYE options.
Borrowings, Net financing Liabilities from
excluding derivative financial Share purchase Group financing
overdrafts Lease liabilities instruments(a) obligations(b) activities(a)
£m £m £m £m £m
At 25 February 2023 (6,451) (7,727) 472 (55) (13,761)
Cash flows arising from financing activities (457) 627 4 807 981
Cash flows arising from operating activities:
Interest paid(c) 192 373 125 - 690
Non-cash movements:
Fair value gains/(losses) (124) - 50 - (74)
Foreign exchange 101 46 - - 147
Interest income/(charge)(c) (217) (373) (108) - (698)
Acquisitions and disposals - 3 - - 3
Lease additions, terminations, modifications and reassessments - (588) - - (588)
Share purchase agreements - - - (752) (752)
Transfer to disposal group 549 17 1 - 567
At 24 February 2024 (6,407) (7,622) 544 - (13,485)
(a)-(b) Refer to previous table for footnotes.
(c) Interest paid and Interest income/(charge) have been re-presented in the prior year.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 213 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 211.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
Note 33 Commitments and contingencies
Capital commitments
At 22 February 2025, there were commitments for capital expenditure contracted for, but not incurred, of £191m (2024: £160m), principally relating to store development and distribution investment.
Subsidiary audit exemptions
The following UK subsidiary undertakings are exempt from the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 (the Act) relating to the audit of individual accounts by virtue of section 479A of the Act.
Name Company number Name Company number Name Company number
Booker Group Limited 5145685 Spen Hill Regeneration Limited 6418300 Tesco Food Sourcing Limited 7502096
Booker Wholesale Holdings Limited 5137980 Supermarket Income Investments UK (No16) Limited 12605279 Tesco Freetime Limited 4345023
Buttoncase Limited 5298861 T & S Stores Limited 1228935 Tesco Fuchsia (3LP) Limited 10127851
Day and Nite Stores Limited 1746058 Tapesilver Limited 5205362 Tesco Gateshead Property Limited 8312532
Dillons Newsagents Limited 140624 Tesco (Overseas) Limited 01611684 Tesco Maintenance Limited 6003554
dunnhumby Overseas Limited 6601821 Tesco Aqua Finco 2 Limited 05888957 Tesco Mobile Communications Limited 4780729
dunnhumby Trustees Limited 3565371 Tesco Atrato (1LP) Limited 6969529 Tesco Mobile Services Limited 4780734
Giant Booker Limited 65519 Tesco Atrato (GP) Limited 6969536 Tesco Navona (1LP) Limited 7459436
Launchgrain Limited 5260856 Tesco Blue (3LP) Limited 10127682 Tesco Passaic (1LP) Limited 7121667
Makro Holding Limited 4310463 Tesco Brislington Limited 10701640 Tesco Property Partner (GP) Limited 4945955
Makro Properties Limited 1273672 Tesco Bury Limited 3854371 Tesco Property Partner (No.1) Limited 4945945
Oakwood Distribution Limited 5721635 Tesco Coral (GP) Limited 06640968 Tesco Sarum (1LP) Limited 7849948
Reskammel Property Company Limited 13264276 Tesco Distribution Holdings Limited 3193655 Tesco Sarum (GP) Limited 7849882
Spen Hill Developments 4827219 Tesco Dorney (1LP) Limited 8255488 The Tesco Coral Limited Partnership LP013072
Spen Hill Management Limited 2460426 Tesco Dorney (GP) Limited 8255493 Transcend Retail Solutions Limited 14772291
Spen Hill Properties (Holdings) PLC 2412674 Tesco Family Dining Limited 8514605 TFSM Limited 14263834
Tesco PLC will guarantee all outstanding liabilities that these subsidiaries are subject to as at the The subsequent stages comprise an equal work assessment and the consideration of TSL’s material
financial year ended 22 February 2025 in accordance with section 479C of the Act, as amended by factor defences (non-discriminatory reasons for differentials in pay terms). The employment tribunal
the Companies and Limited Liability Partnerships (Accounts and Audit Exemptions and Change of hearing of TSL’s material factor defences is due to commence on 1 September 2025. The employment
Accounting Framework) Regulations 2012. In addition, Tesco PLC will guarantee any contingent and tribunal hearing for the equal value assessment is due to commence on 1 February 2027. The Equal Pay
prospective liabilities that these subsidiaries are subject to. Claims have been split into three tranches (with tranche 1 being heard first) and the stages apply to
each tranche. Although the claims that have been heard to date involve female claimants, male store
Contingent liabilities
workers (being close to 50% of the current store worker population) may also bring claims by
As previously reported, Tesco Stores Limited (TSL) (along with all the major supermarkets) has
comparing themselves against any successful female claimants. Male claimants who have pre-
received claims from current and former hourly-paid store colleagues alleging that they do equal work
emptively brought such claims currently make up approximately 46% of the Equal Pay Claims against
to that of colleagues working in its distribution centres and that differences in terms and conditions
TSL in the employment tribunal. The ultimate determination of all claims is likely to take many years,
relating to pay are not objectively justifiable (the Equal Pay Claims). The claimants are seeking the
including as a result of appeals.
differential between the pay terms looking back, and equivalence of pay terms moving forward. As at
the date of this disclosure, there are approximately 59,000 claims against TSL, with the number of At present, the total number of Equal Pay Claims that may be received, the merits, and likely outcome
claims expected to continue to increase as the litigation progresses. of those claims and of TSL’s defences to them, and the potential impact on the Group, are subject to
various and substantial uncertainties. There are multiple factual and legal defences to these claims
UK equal pay law provides that an employee is entitled to the same terms in relation to pay as those
and the Group intends to defend them vigorously, while at the same time taking appropriate steps to
of a comparator of the opposite sex in the same employment if they are employed to do equal work.
mitigate the risks. The Group therefore cannot make an assessment of the likely outcome of the
The legislation achieves this by implying a clause into the contract of employment, which has the
litigation, or the potential quantum of its liability or the potential impact on the Group at this stage.
effect of importing into the employee’s contract the more favourable term(s) of the comparator.
Depending on the outcome at the various stages of the Equal Pay Claims, and dependent on the
Equal pay claims are typically heard in three stages and the claimants have to win at every stage in number of any ultimately successful claims, the potential quantum of its liability could be material.
order to succeed. The first stage is comparability, which is effectively a technical gateway to the
There are a number of other contingent liabilities that arise in the normal course of business, which if
claims proceeding. The claimants have to show that there is a valid basis in law for comparing their pay
realised, are not expected to result in a material liability to the Group.
and the pay of any comparator. One of the legal bases here is that pay terms are set by the same body.
Following a European court ruling on this, TSL has made a concession on comparability. Note 34 Events after the reporting period
There were no material events after the reporting period requiring disclosure.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 214 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 212.
Tesco PLC – Parent Company balance sheet
22 February 2025 24 February 2024
Notes £m £m
Non–current assets
Investments 6 16,538 16,990
Receivables 7 - 234
Derivative financial instruments 8 869 949
17,407 18,173
Current assets
Receivables 7 542 537
Cash in hand 271 231
Derivative financial instruments 8 145 -
958 768
Current liabilities
Payables 9 (488) (756)
Borrowings 10 (534) (55)
(1,022) (811)
Net current assets/(liabilities) (64) (43)
Non–current liabilities
Payables 9 (1,941) (1,131)
Borrowings 10 (993) (1,473)
Derivative financial instruments 8 (12) (13)
Deferred tax liabilities 11 (13) (23)
(2,959) (2,640)
Net assets 14,384 15,490
Equity
Share capital 14 426 445
Share premium 5,165 5,165
Other reserves 14 2,892 2,865
Retained earnings (including profit for the financial year of £809m (2024: £1,866m)) 5,901 7,015
Total equity 14,384 15,490
The notes on pages 214 to 219 form part of these financial statements.
Ken Murphy Imran Nawaz
Directors
The Parent Company financial statements on pages 212 to 219 were approved and authorised for issue by the Directors on 9 April 2025.
Tesco PLC
Registered number 00445790
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 215 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 213.
Tesco PLC – Parent Company statement of changes in equity
Share capital Other reserves
(Note 14) Share premium (Note 14) Retained earnings Total equity
£m £m £m £m £m
At 24 February 2024 445 5,165 2,865 7,015 15,490
Profit for the year - - - 809 809
Other comprehensive income/(loss)
Gains on cash flow hedges - - 34 - 34
Cash flow hedges reclassified and reported in the Company income statement - - (70) - (70)
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income - - 9 - 9
Total other comprehensive income/(loss) - - (27) - (27)
Total comprehensive income/(loss) - - (27) 809 782
Transactions with owners
Own shares purchased for cancellation - - (1,016) - (1,016)
Own shares cancelled (19) - 1,035 (1,016) -
Own shares purchased for share schemes - - (204) - (204)
Share-based payments - - 239 (42) 197
Dividends - - - (865) (865)
Total transactions with owners (19) - 54 (1,923) (1,888)
At 22 February 2025 426 5,165 2,892 5,901 14,384
Share capital Other reserves
(Note 14) Share premium (Note 14) Retained earnings Total equity
£m £m £m £m £m
At 25 February 2023 463 5,165 2,793 6,692 15,113
Profit for the year - - - 1,866 1,866
Other comprehensive income/(loss)
Gains on cash flow hedges - - 25 - 25
Cash flow hedges reclassified and reported in the Company income statement - - (55) - (55)
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income - - (4) - (4)
Total other comprehensive income/(loss) - - (34) - (34)
Total comprehensive income/(loss) - - (34) 1,866 1,832
Transfer from hedging reserve to retained earnings - - 44 (44) -
Transactions with owners
Own shares purchased for cancellation - - (752) - (752)
Own shares cancelled (18) - 770 (752) -
Own shares purchased for share schemes - - (140) - (140)
Share-based payments - - 184 30 214
Dividends - - - (777) (777)
Total transactions with owners (18) - 62 (1,499) (1,455)
At 24 February 2024 445 5,165 2,865 7,015 15,490
The Company has considered the profits available for distribution to shareholders. At 22 February 2025, the Company had retained earnings of £5.9bn (2024: £7.0bn), of which £3.2bn is available for distribution
(2024: £4.2bn).
The notes on pages 214 to 219 form part of these financial statements.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 216 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 214.
Notes to the Parent Company financial statements
Note 1 Authorisation of financial statements and statement of compliance Investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures
with FRS 101 Investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures are stated at cost less, where appropriate, provisions
for impairment. The Company tests the investment balances for impairment annually or when there
The Parent Company financial statements for the 52 weeks ended 22 February 2025 were approved
are indicators of impairment.
by the Board of Directors on 9 April 2025 and the Company balance sheet was signed on the Board’s
behalf by Ken Murphy and Imran Nawaz. Foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the functional currency at the exchange rate on
These financial statements were prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101,
the date of the transaction. At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are
‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’ (FRS 101). The Company meets the definition of a qualifying entity
denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated to the functional currency at the rates prevailing
under FRS 100, ‘Application of Financial Reporting Requirements’ as issued by the Financial Reporting
on the balance sheet date.
Council.
Share-based payments
The Company’s financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling, its functional currency,
The fair value of employee share option plans is calculated at the grant date using the Black-Scholes
generally rounded to the nearest million.
model. The resulting cost is charged to the Company income statement over the vesting period. The
The principal accounting policies adopted by the Company are set out in Note 2. The financial value of the charge is adjusted to reflect expected and actual levels of vesting. Where the Company
statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except for certain financial awards shares or options to employees of subsidiary entities, this is treated as a capital contribution.
instruments and share-based payments that have been measured at fair value.
Own shares held
Note 2 Accounting policies Own shares represent the shares of Tesco PLC that are held by the Tesco International Employee Benefit
Trust, or which are purchased and held for cancellation as part of the share buyback programme. The
Basis of preparation of financial statements
Company adopts a ‘look-through’ approach which, in substance, accounts for the trust as an extension
The Parent Company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with FRS 101 and the
of the Company. Shares purchased for cancellation are included in own shares held until cancellation, at
Companies Act 2006 (the Act).
which point they are transferred to retained earnings. Own shares held can include equity elements of
FRS 101 sets out a reduced disclosure framework for a ‘qualifying entity’ as defined in the standard, forward contracts where the Group has an obligation to purchase its own shares.
which addresses the financial reporting requirements and disclosure exemptions in the
Financial instruments
individual financial statements of qualifying entities that otherwise apply the recognition,
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Company balance sheet when the
measurement and disclosure requirements of adopted IFRS.
Company becomes party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
The financial year represents the 52 weeks to 22 February 2025 (prior financial year 52 weeks to
Receivables
24 February 2024).
Receivables are recognised initially at fair value, and subsequently at amortised cost using the
As permitted by FRS 101, the Company has taken advantage of the disclosure exemptions available effective interest rate method, less any expected credit losses.
under that standard in relation to business combinations, financial instruments, capital management,
Financial liabilities and equity instruments
presentation of comparative information in respect of certain assets, presentation of a cash flow
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual
statement, impairment of assets, share-based payments, related party transactions and disclosure of
arrangements entered into. An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in
the possible impact of the application of a new IFRS that has been issued but is not yet effective.
the assets of the Company after deducting all of its liabilities. Equity instruments issued by the
Where required, equivalent disclosures are given in the consolidated financial statements of Tesco PLC.
Company are recorded as the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
The Parent Company financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis as set out in Note 1
Borrowings
of the consolidated financial statements of Tesco PLC.
Borrowings and overdrafts are initially recognised at fair value and net of attributable transaction
The Directors have taken advantage of the exemption available under section 408 of the Companies costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any differences
Act 2006 and not presented an income statement or a statement of comprehensive income/(loss) between proceeds and redemption value being recognised in the Company income statement over
for the Company alone. the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
A summary of the Company’s material accounting policies is set out below. Payables
Payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost using the effective
interest rate method.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 217 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 215.
Notes to the Parent Company financial statements continued
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The tax expense is recognised in the Company income statement, except when it relates to items
The Company uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange and recognised directly in the Company statement of changes in equity or the Company statement of
interest rate risks arising from operating, financing and investing activities. The Company does not comprehensive income/(loss), in which case the tax follows the same treatment.
hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available
Derivative financial instruments are recognised and stated at fair value. Where derivatives do not against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses on remeasurement are immediately recognised in
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset against each other when there is a legally enforceable
the Company income statement. Where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any
right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and they relate to income taxes levied
resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the hedge relationship and the item being hedged.
by the same taxation authority on either the same taxable entity or different taxable entities which
Cash flow hedging intend to settle current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Derivative financial instruments are classified as cash flow hedges when they hedge the Company’s
The Company has applied the Pillar Two income taxes exception in IAS 12, so neither recognises nor
exposure to variability in cash flows that are either attributable to a particular risk associated with a
discloses information about deferred tax assets and liabilities related to Pillar Two income taxes.
recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable forecast transaction. The effective element of any
gain or loss from remeasuring the derivative designated as the hedging instrument is recognised Judgements and sources of estimation uncertainty
directly in the Company statement of comprehensive income/(loss) and accumulated in the hedging The preparation of the Company financial statements requires management to make judgements,
reserve. The ineffective element is recognised immediately in the Company income statement. estimates and assumptions in applying the Company’s accounting policies to determine the reported
amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
The associated cumulative gain or loss is reclassified from other comprehensive income and recognised
in the Company income statement in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other
affects the Company income statement. The classification of the effective portion when recognised in factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ
the Company income statement is the same as the classification of the hedged transaction. from these estimates. The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis,
with revisions to accounting estimates applied prospectively.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or
exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting. At that point in time, any cumulative gain or loss The preparation of the Company financial statements for the financial year did not require the
on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in the Company statement of changes in exercise of any critical accounting judgements. The Company’s evaluation of the recoverable amount
equity until the forecast transaction occurs or the original hedged item affects the Company income of investments in subsidiaries involves significant estimation uncertainty. The key assumptions to
statement. If a forecast hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain which the recoverable amounts are most sensitive are disclosed in Note 6.
or loss recognised in the Company statement of changes in equity is reclassified to the Company
New standards and amendments effective for the current financial year
income statement.
New standards, interpretations and amendments that became effective in the current financial year
Pensions have not had a material impact on the Company.
The Company participates in a Group defined benefit pension scheme which is closed to future
Note 3 Auditor remuneration
accrual. The net defined benefit cost and deficit/surplus for the scheme are borne and recognised by
another Group company, Tesco Stores Limited, as per the stated policy of the Group. The Company Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Company and Group financial statements
also participates in a defined contribution scheme open to all UK employees. Payments to this scheme are disclosed in Note 4 to the Group financial statements.
are recognised as an expense as they fall due.
Note 4 Dividends
Taxation
For details of dividends see Note 9 to the Group financial statements.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the financial year, using tax rates
enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences
between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the
amounts used for taxation purposes.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is
settled or the asset realised based on the tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted
by the balance sheet date.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 218 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 216.
Notes to the Parent Company financial statements continued
Note 5 Employment costs, including Directors’ remuneration Sensitivity
The key sources of estimation uncertainty in determining the recoverable amount of investments in
2025 2024 trading subsidiaries are the discount rate, long-term growth rate and cashflows. Discount rates range
Notes £m £m from 6.8% to 11.2% and long-term growth rates range from 1.5% to 3.0%. If the discount rates were to
Wages and salaries 13 10 increase by 1.0%pt, the carrying amount of investments would decrease by £1,010m. If the long-term
Social security costs 2 2 growth rates were to decrease by 0.5%pt, the carrying amount of investments would decrease by
Pension costs 13 1 1 £443m. If the future cashflows were to decrease by 5.0%, the carrying amount of investments would
Share-based payment expense 12 6 5 decrease by £350m.
Total 22 18 The Company’s subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates are shown on pages 220 to
225.
The amounts above include recharges from other Group companies for Tesco PLC-related activities.
Note 7 Receivables
The average number of employees (all Directors of the Company) during the financial year was 11
(2024: 12). 2025 2024
£m £m
The Schedule 5 requirements of SI 2008/410 for Directors’ remuneration are included within the Amounts owed by Group undertakings* 517 747
Directors’ remuneration report on pages 90 to 122.
Other receivables 25 24
Note 6 Investments Total receivables 542 771
Of which:
2025
£m Current 542 537
Cost Non-current - 234
At 24 February 2024 17,511 542 771
Capital contributions 117 * Amounts owed by Group undertakings are non interest-bearing and are repayable on demand.
Return of capital contributions (233)
The expected credit loss on receivables is immaterial (2024: immaterial).
At 22 February 2025 17,395
Accumulated impairment losses
At 24 February 2024 (521)
Impairment (336)
At 22 February 2025 (857)
Net carrying value
At 22 February 2025 16,538
At 24 February 2024 16,990
Included in the return of capital contributions of £233m is the repayment of £150m of 11.5% fixed rate
reset AT1 securities from Tesco Personal Finance Group Limited. As a result, the Company’s
investment in Tesco Personal Finance Group Limited has reduced by £150m.
Following the Banking operations disposal in November 2024, the Company’s investment in Tesco
Personal Finance Group Limited has been impaired by £295m to a recoverable amount of £1.6bn. The
recoverable amount was estimated as the equity value of the subsidiary, comprising the value in use of
its Insurance and Money Services businesses, net of unallocated central assets and liabilities on the
subsidiary’s balance sheet. The methodology for calculating the value in use of Insurance and Money
Services is set out in Note 15 of the Group financial statements. The key assumptions are discount
rates of 9.0% and 11.2% for Insurance and Money Services respectively and a long-term growth rate
of 1.5%.
The remaining immaterial impairment of £41m relates to three other subsidiaries.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 219 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 217.
Notes to the Parent Company financial statements continued
Note 8 Derivative financial instruments
2025 2024
Asset Liability Asset Liability
Fair value Notional Fair value Notional Fair value Notional Fair value Notional
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cash flow hedges
Index-linked swaps* 296 406 - - 263 406 - -
Derivatives not in a formal hedge relationship
Cross-currency swaps 138 308 (12) 95 152 386 (13) 94
Index-linked swaps 580 3,089 - - 534 3,089 - -
Total 1,014 3,803 (12) 95 949 3,881 (13) 94
* The notional values of the index-linked swaps designated as cash flow hedges have been re-presented to show the original unindexed notional amounts. In the prior year, the table presented the notional values after inflation indexation. The current year notional value
after indexation for these swaps is £818m (2024: £790m).
Note 9 Payables Note 10 Borrowings
2025 2024 2025 2024
£m £m Par value Maturity £m £m
Amounts owed to Group undertakings* 2,405 1,861 Bank loans and overdrafts 90 32
Other payables 22 23 LPI and RPI-linked bonds*
Taxation and social security 2 3 3.322% LPI MTN £210m Nov 2025 429 416
Total payables 2,429 1,887 1.982% RPI MTN £196m Mar 2036 397 382
Of which: Other borrowings
Current 488 756 6% MTN £38m Dec 2029 42 42
Non-current 1,941 1,131 5.5% MTN £67m Jan 2033 75 76
2,429 1,887 6.15% USD Bond $355m Nov 2037 341 346
* Amounts owed to Group undertakings are either interest-bearing or non interest-bearing depending on the type and duration of 4.875% MTN £14m Mar 2042 14 14
the creditor relationship, with interest rates ranging from 5.1% to 5.2% (2024: 5.8% to 6.2%) and with maturities up to and 5.125% MTN €147m Apr 2047 125 206
including February 2051.
5.2% MTN £14m Mar 2057 14 14
Under the policy choice permitted by IFRS 17 ‘Insurance contracts’, the Company has elected to
Total 1,527 1,528
recognise and measure financial guarantee contracts in accordance with IFRS 9 ‘Financial
Of which:
instruments’. These balances, included in other payables, are immaterial.
Current 534 55
The Company has entered into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee indebtedness held on the
Non-current 993 1,473
balance sheets of Group undertakings amounting to £3.4bn (2024: £3.5bn). The Company has also
guaranteed derivative agreements of Group undertakings, of which those in a net liability position at 1,527 1,528
the reporting date total £0.1bn (2024: £0.1bn). * These bonds are redeemable at par, indexed for increases in the RPI over the life of the MTN. However, for the LPI-linked bond, the
maximum indexation of the principal in any one year is 5%, with a minimum of 0%. For the RPI-linked bond, refer to Note 27 to the
In addition, the Company has guaranteed the rental payments of certain Group undertakings relating Group financial statements.
to a portfolio of retail stores, distribution centres and mixed-use retail developments amounting to
£4.9bn (2024: £5.1bn).
In the prior year the Company had guaranteed £0.9bn drawn by Tesco Bank under the Bank of
England’s Term Funding Scheme with incentives for small and medium-sized enterprises (TFSME).
The amounts were fully repaid in the current year.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 220 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 218.
Notes to the Parent Company financial statements continued
Note 11 Taxation Note 13 Pensions
The deferred tax liability recognised by the Company, and the movements thereon, during the current The total cost of participation in the Tesco Retirement Savings Plan (a defined contribution scheme) to
financial year are as follows: the Company was £1m (2024: £1m). Further disclosure relating to all schemes can be found in Note 29
to the Group financial statements.
2025
£m Note 14 Called-up share capital and reserves
24 February 2024 (23) Refer to Note 30 to the Group financial statements for details relating to called-up share capital.
Credit to the income statement 1
Other reserves
Movement in reserves for the year 9 The tables below set out the movements in other reserves:
22 February 2025 (13)
Capital
redemption Hedging Own shares Merger
Note 12 Share-based payments reserve reserve held reserve Total
The Company’s equity-settled share-based payment schemes comprise various share schemes £m £m £m £m £m
designed to reward Executive Directors. At 24 February 2024 61 69 (315) 3,050 2,865
Other comprehensive income/(loss)
For further information on these schemes, including the valuation models and assumptions used,
refer to Note 28 to the Group financial statements. Gains on cash flow hedges - 34 - - 34
Cash flow hedges reclassified and reported - (70) - - (70)
Share option schemes
in the Company income statement
At 22 February 2025, there were 9,890 options outstanding (2024: 9,890) with a weighted average
Tax relating to components of other - 9 - - 9
exercise price (WAEP) of 182.00p (2024: 182.00p) and a weighted average remaining contractual life of
comprehensive income
1.52 years (2024: 2.52 years). There were no options granted, exercised or forfeited in the 52 weeks
ended 22 February 2025 (52 weeks ended 24 February 2024: nil). There were no options exercisable at Total other comprehensive income/(loss) - (27) - - (27)
22 February 2025 (2024: nil). Transactions with owners
Own shares purchased for cancellation - - (1,016) - (1,016)
Share bonus and incentive schemes
Executive Directors participate in the Deferred Bonus Plan, a performance-related bonus scheme. Own shares cancelled 19 - 1,016 - 1,035
The amount paid is based on a percentage of salary and is paid partly in cash and partly in shares. Own shares purchased for share schemes - - (204) - (204)
Bonuses are awarded to the Executive Directors who have completed a required service period and Share-based payments - - 239 - 239
depend on achievement of corporate and individual performance targets. For further information on
Total transactions with owners 19 - 35 - 54
these schemes, including the valuation models and assumptions used, refer to Note 28 to the Group
At 22 February 2025 80 42 (280) 3,050 2,892
financial statements.
The number and weighted average fair value (WAFV) of share bonuses granted during the financial
year were:
2025 2024
Number WAFV Number WAFV
of shares pence of shares pence
Deferred Bonus Plan 829,624 306.46 728,059 273.60
Performance Share Plan 2,018,282 308.40 2,312,987 252.00
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 221 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 219.
Notes to the Parent Company financial statements continued
Capital
redemption Hedging Own shares Merger
reserve reserve held reserve Total
£m £m £m £m £m
At 25 February 2023 43 59 (359) 3,050 2,793
Other comprehensive income/(loss)
Gains on cash flow hedges - 25 - - 25
Cash flow hedges reclassified and reported - (55) - - (55)
in the Company income statement
Tax relating to components of other - (4) - - (4)
comprehensive income
Total other comprehensive income - (34) - - (34)
Transfer from hedging reserve to retained - 44 - - 44
earnings
Transactions with owners
Own shares purchased for cancellation - - (752) - (752)
Own shares cancelled 18 - 752 - 770
Own shares purchased for share schemes - - (140) - (140)
Share-based payments - - 184 - 184
Total transactions with owners 18 - 44 - 62
At 24 February 2024 61 69 (315) 3,050 2,865
Note 15 Contingent liabilities
Contingent liabilities
Refer to Note 33 to the Group financial statements.
Note 16 Events after the reporting period
After the balance sheet date, Tesco Personal Finance Group Ltd, a subsidiary of Tesco PLC, completed
a capital reduction and its Board approved a capital distribution to Tesco PLC of £315m. It is due for
settlement after publication of the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025. Once received, it
will reduce the carrying value of the Tesco PLC investment in the subsidiary. This is a non-adjusting
post balance sheet event.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 222 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 220.
Related undertakings of the Tesco Group
In accordance with section 409 of the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 4 of The Large and Registered % held by
Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008, a full list of related Name of undertaking address Class of share held Group
undertakings, together with the registered office address, class of share held and the percentage of dunnhumby Limited 4 GBP0.05 Ordinary 100
share class owned, as at 22 February 2025 is disclosed below. Changes to the list of related GBP0.10 A Ordinary 100
undertakings since the year end date are detailed in the footnotes below. All undertakings are 100
GBP0.10 Deferred
indirectly owned by Tesco PLC unless otherwise stated.
dunnhumby Overseas Limited 4 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
Subsidiary undertakings incorporated in the United Kingdom dunnhumby Trustees Limited 4 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
Giant Bidco Limited 8 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
Registered % held by
Name of undertaking address Class of share held Group Giant Booker Limited 8 GBP0.0025 Ordinary 100
Armitage Finance Unlimited 1 GBP0.90 Ordinary 100 Giant Midco Limited 8 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
BF Limited 8 GBP0.000000011111111 Ordinary 100 Highams Green Management Company 1 Limited by Guarantee –
Bishop’s Group Limited 8 GBP0.01 Ordinary 100 Limited
Booker Cash & Carry Limited 8 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100 IRTH (15) Limited 8 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
Booker Direct Limited 8 GBP0.01 Ordinary 100 IRTH (19) Limited 8 USD0.000000052383172 Ordinary 100
Booker Group Limited 8 GBP0.00000000055625 Ordinary 100 Launchgrain Limited† 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
Booker Limited 8 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100 Linnco Limited 8 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
Booker Retail Partners (GB) Limited 8 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100 Londis (Holdings) Limited 8 GBP50.00 Ordinary 100
Booker Retail Limited 8 GBP0.10 Ordinary 100 Londis Pension Trustees Limited 8 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
Booker Pension Trustees Limited 8 Limited by Guarantee – Makro Holding Limited 8 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
Booker Wholesale Holdings Limited 8 GBP0.01 A1 Ordinary 100 Makro Properties Limited 8 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
Booker Unapproved Scheme Trustees Ltd 8 Limited by Guarantee – Makro Self Service Wholesalers Limited 8 GBP1.00 A Ordinary 100
Bourne End Residential Management 1 Limited by Guarantee – GBP1.00 B Ordinary 100
Company Limited Maldon Finance Limited 1 GBP0.01 Ordinary 100
Broughton Retail Park Nominee 1 Limited 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100 GBP0.000000000592 A Preference 100
Broughton Retail Park Nominee 2 Limited 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100 GBP0.000000000222 B Preference 100
Broughton Retail Park Nominee 3 Limited 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100 GBP0.000000000740 C Preference 100
Broughton Retail Park Nominee 4 Limited 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100 Murdoch Norton Limited 8 GBP0.05 Ordinary 100
Budgen Holdings Limited 8 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100 Oakwood Distribution Limited 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
Budgens Pension Trustees No.2 Limited 8 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100 One Stop Community Stores Limited 2 GBP0.00001200004 Ordinary 100
Budgens Property Investments Limited 8 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100 One Stop Convenience Stores Limited 2 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
Budgens Stores Limited 8 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100 One Stop Stores Limited†(b) 2 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
Buttoncase Limited† 1 GBP1.00 2% Cumulative 100 One Stop Stores Trustee Services Limited 2 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
Redeemable Preference Orpington (Station Road) Limited 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
GBP1.00 Ordinary 100 PTLL Limited 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
Cardiff Cathays Terrace Management 1 Limited by Guarantee – Reskammel Property Company Limited 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
Company Limited(a)
Seacroft Green Nominee 1 Ltd 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
Day And Nite Stores Limited 2 GBP1.00 Cumulative Convertible 100
Seacroft Green Nominee 2 Ltd 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
Participating Preferred Ordinary
Spen Hill Developments Limited 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
GBP1.00 Cumulative 100
Spen Hill Management Limited†(c) 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
Redeemable Preference
Spen Hill Properties (Holdings) plc† 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
Spen Hill Regeneration Limited 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
Dillons Newsagents Limited* 2 GBP0.25 Non–Voting Ordinary 100
Spen Hill Residential No 1 Limited 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
dunnhumby International Limited 4 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
Spen Hill Residential No 2 Limited 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 223 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 221.
Related undertakings of the Tesco Group continued
Registered % held by Registered % held by
Name of undertaking address Class of share held Group Name of undertaking address Class of share held Group
Station House Welling Management Limited 1 Limited by Guarantee – Tesco Employees’ Share Scheme Trustees 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
Statusfloat Limited 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100 Limited†(d)
Supermarket Income Investments UK 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100 Tesco Family Dining Limited 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
(NO16) Limited Tesco Food Sourcing Limited 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
T&S Stores Limited† 2 GBP0.05 Ordinary 100 Tesco Freetime Limited 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
Tapesilver Limited† 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100 Tesco Fuchsia (3LP) Limited 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
Teesport (GP) Limited 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100 Tesco Gateshead Property Limited 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
The Teesport Unit Trust 33 – 100 Tesco Holdings Limited† 1 GBP0.10 Ordinary 100
Tesco (Overseas) Limited† 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100 GBP10 Preference
Tesco Atrato (1LP) Limited 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100 Tesco International Services Limited† 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
Tesco Atrato (GP) Limited 1 GBP1.00 A Ordinary 100 Tesco Maintenance Limited 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
GBP1.00 B Ordinary 100 Tesco Mobile Communications Limited† 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
Tesco Atrato (Nominee 1) Limited 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100 Tesco Mobile Services Limited 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
Tesco Atrato (Nominee 2) Limited 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100 Tesco Navona (1LP) Limited 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
Tesco Atrato (Nominee Holdco) Limited 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100 Tesco Navona (GP) Limited 1 GBP1.00 A Ordinary 100
Tesco Atrato Depot Propco Limited 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100 GBP1.00 B Ordinary 100
Tesco Atrato Unit Trust 33 – 100 Tesco Navona (Nominee 1) Limited 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
Tesco Blue (3LP) Limited 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100 Tesco Navona (Nominee 2) Limited 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
Tesco Blue (GP) Limited 1 GBP1.00 A Ordinary 100 Tesco Navona (Nominee Holdco) Limited 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
GBP1.00 B Ordinary 100 Tesco Navona PL Propco Limited 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
Tesco Blue (Nominee 1) Limited 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100 Tesco Overseas Investments Limited† 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
Tesco Blue (Nominee 2) Limited 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100 Tesco Passaic (1LP) Limited 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
Tesco Blue (Nominee Holdco) Limited 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100 Tesco Passaic (GP) Limited 1 GBP1.00 A Ordinary 100
Tesco Blue Unit Trust 33 – 100 GBP1.00 B Ordinary 100
Tesco Breakfast Unit Trust 33 – 100 Tesco Passaic (Nominee 1) Limited 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
Tesco Brislington Limited 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100 Tesco Passaic (Nominee 2) Limited 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
Tesco Bury Limited 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100 Tesco Passaic (Nominee Holdco) Limited 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
Tesco Coral (GP) Limited 1 GBP1.00 A Ordinary 100 Tesco Passaic PL Propco Limited 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
GBP1.00 B Ordinary 100 Tesco Pension Investment Limited(e) 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
Tesco Coral (Nominee) Limited 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100 Tesco Pension Trustees Limited† 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
Tesco Corporate Treasury Services PLC† 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100 Tesco Personal Finance Group Limited† 6 GBP0.10 A Ordinary 100
Tesco Depot Propco Limited 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100 Tesco Personal Finance Limited 6 GBP0.10 Ordinary 100
Tesco Distribution Holdings Limited 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100 Tesco Property (Nominees) Limited 11 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
Tesco Distribution Limited 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100 Tesco Property (Nominees) (No.1) Limited 11 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
Tesco Dorney (1LP) Limited 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100 Tesco Property (Nominees) (No.2) Limited 11 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
Tesco Dorney (GP) Limited 1 GBP1.00 A Ordinary 100 Tesco Property Finance 1 Holdco Limited 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
GBP1.00 B Ordinary 100 Tesco Property Finance 1 PLC 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
Tesco Dorney (Nominee 1) Limited 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100 GBP0.25 Ordinary(f) 100
Tesco Dorney (Nominee 2) Limited 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100 Tesco Property Holdings (No.2) Limited 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
Tesco Dorney (Nominee Holdco) Limited 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100 Tesco Property Holdings Limited 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
Tesco Property Nominees (No.5) Limited 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 224 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 222.
Related undertakings of the Tesco Group continued
Registered % held by International subsidiary undertakings
Name of undertaking address Class of share held Group
Tesco Property Nominees (No.6) Limited 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100 Registered % held by
Name of undertaking address Class of share held Group
Tesco Property Partner (GP) Limited† 1 GBP1.00 A Ordinary 100
Arena (Jersey) Management Limited† 33 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
GBP1.00 B Ordinary 100
Cheshunt Holdings Guernsey Limited 27 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
Tesco Property Partner (No.1) Limited† 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
dunnhumby (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd 10 MYR1.00 Ordinary 100
Tesco Sarum (1LP) Limited 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
dunnhumby (Thailand) Limited 19 THB100 Ordinary 100
Tesco Sarum (GP) Limited 1 GBP1.00 A Ordinary 100
dunnhumby Australia Pty Ltd 64 AUD1.00 Ordinary 100
GBP1.00 B Ordinary 100
dunnhumby Brasil Consultoria Ltda 16 BRL1.00 Ordinary 100
Tesco Sarum (Nominee 1) Limited 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
dunnhumby Canada Limited 58 CAD1.00 Ordinary 100
Tesco Sarum (Nominee 2) Limited 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
dunnhumby Chile SpA 48 CLP500,000 Ordinary 100
Tesco Sarum (Nominee Holdco) Limited 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
dunnhumby Colombia S.A.S. 29 COP1,000 Ordinary 100
Tesco Seacroft Ltd 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
dunnhumby Consulting Services India 59 INR10 Ordinary 100
Tesco Secretaries Limited 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100 Private Limited
Tesco Services Limited 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100 dunnhumby Czech s.r.o. 7 CZK1.00 Ordinary 100
Tesco Stores Limited 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100 dunnhumby Denmark ApS 56 DKK1.00 Ordinary 100
GBP1.00 A Preference 100 dunnhumby Finland Oy 30 EUR1.00 Ordinary 100
GBP1.00 B Preference 100 dunnhumby France SAS 18 EUR2.00 Ordinary 100
Tesco Underwriting Limited 31 GBP1.00 A Ordinary 100 dunnhumby Germany GmbH 14 EUR1.00 Ordinary 100
GBP1.00 B Ordinary 100 dunnhumby Hungary Kft 32 HUF1.00 Ordinary 100
The Big Food Group Limited 8 GBP0.10 Ordinary 100 dunnhumby Inc. 35 No Par Value Stock 100
The Teesport Limited Partnership 1 Limited Partnership 100 dunnhumby Information Technology 61 USD1.00 Common Stock 100
The Tesco Atrato Limited Partnership 1 Limited Partnership 100 Consulting (Shanghai) Company Limited
The Tesco Blue Limited Partnership 1 Limited Partnership 100 dunnhumby Ireland Limited 66 EUR1.00 Ordinary 100
The Tesco Coral Limited Partnership 1 Limited Partnership 100 dunnhumby IT Services India Private 36 INR10 Ordinary 100
The Tesco Dorney Limited Partnership 1 Limited Partnership 100 Limited
The Tesco Navona Limited Partnership 1 Limited Partnership 100 dunnhumby Italia s.r.l 37 EUR1.00 Ordinary 100
The Tesco Passaic Limited Partnership 1 Limited Partnership 100 dunnhumby Japan K.K. 38 JPY10,000 Ordinary 100
The Tesco Property Limited Partnership 1 Limited Partnership 100 dunnhumby México S. de R.L. de C.V. 68 MXN1.00 Quota 100
The Tesco Sarum Limited Partnership 1 Limited Partnership 100 dunnhumby Netherlands B.V. 69 EUR100 Ordinary 100
TPI Fund Managers Limited 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100 dunnhumby New Zealand 63 NZD1.00 Ordinary 100
TPT Holdco No.1 Limited 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100 dunnhumby Poland sp. z.o.o. 42 PLN50,000 Ordinary 100
Transcend Retail Solutions Limited 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100 dunnhumby SARL 18 EUR100 Ordinary 100
TSFM Limited 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100 dunnhumby Serviços de Promoção 16 BRL1.00 Ordinary 100
Digital Ltda
Venus Wine & Spirit Merchants PLC 8 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
dunnhumby Slovakia s.r.o. 57 No Par Value Ordinary 100
Weymouth Avenue (Dorchester) Limited 1 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
dunnhumby Spain S.L. 50 EUR1.00 Ordinary 100
dunnhumby South Africa (Pty) Ltd 43 ZAR1.00 Ordinary 100
dunnhumby Ventures LLC 44 USD1.00 Capital 100
Edson Properties Limited 24 EUR1.00 Ordinary 100
ELH Insurance Limited 70 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
Gresham Properties Limited 24 EUR1.00 Ordinary 100
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 225 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 223.
Related undertakings of the Tesco Group continued
Registered % held by Subsidiary undertakings in liquidation
Name of undertaking address Class of share held Group
The following subsidiary undertakings were incorporated in the United Kingdom
Joyce’s Supermarkets (Oranmore) 24 EUR1.00 Ordinary 100
Unlimited Company
Registered % held by
Monread Developments Limited 24 EUR0.001 Ordinary 100 Name of undertaking address Class of share held Group
Nabola Development Limited 24 EUR1.25 A Ordinary 100 Acklam Management Company Limited 9 Limited by Guarantee –
EUR1.25 B Ordinary 100 Berry Lane Management Company Limited 9 Limited by Guarantee –
Omnisol Private Limited 41 INR10 Equity 100 Oxford Fox and Hounds Management 9 Limited by Guarantee –
Shopping Mall Eden s.r.o. 7 CZK1.00 Ordinary 100 Company Limited
Sociomantic Labs Private Limited 46 INR10 Ordinary 100 Tesco Aqua (GP) Limited(g) 1 GBP0.0001 A Ordinary 100
Tesco Akadémia Képzési és Fejlesztési 32 HUF1.00 Business Share 100 Tesco Aqua (FinCo2) Limited 9 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
Korátolt Felelősségű Társaság Tesco Lagoon GP Limited 5 GBP1.00 Ordinary 100
Tesco Angel Foundation 32 HUF1.00 Ordinary 100 Tesco Property Partner (GP No.2) Limited(g) 1 GBP1.00 A Ordinary 100
Tesco Bengaluru Private Limited 41 INR10 Ordinary 100 GBP1.00 B Ordinary 100
Tesco Capital No. 1 Limited† 28 GBP0.50 A Ordinary 100 Tesco Red (GP) Limited(g) 1 GBP0.00001 A Ordinary 100
GBP0.50 B Ordinary 100 GBP0.00001 B Ordinary 100
GBP0.01 Guaranteed Cumulative Fixed 100
Tesco TLB Properties Limited(g) 1 GBP0.0000001 A Ordinary 100
Rate Preference 100
GBP0.0000001 B Ordinary 100
GBP0.01 Preferred Ordinary
Tesco Corporate Treasury Services 24 EUR1.00 Ordinary 100 The following subsidiary undertakings were incorporated outside of the United Kingdom
Europe Designated Activity Company
Tesco Franchise Stores ČR s.r.o. 7 CZK2,000,000 Ordinary 100 Registered % held by
Name of undertaking address Class of share held Group
Tesco-Global Stores Privately Held 32 HUF10 Common 100
Patrick C. Joyce Supermarket (Headford) ULC 24 EUR1.25 Ordinary 100
Company Limited HUF10 Registered Preference 100
Liquidation Tesco Sourcing Chile SpA 22 CLP482.69 Nominal Ordinary 100
Tesco Holdings B.V. 40 EUR1.00 Ordinary 100
Tesco International Clothing Brand s.r.o. 57 EUR1.00 Ordinary 100
Tesco International Franchising s.r.o. 57 EUR1.00 Ordinary 100
Tesco International Sourcing Limited 20 HKD10 Ordinary 100
Tesco Ireland Holdings Limited 24 EUR0.00008 Ordinary 100
Tesco Ireland Limited 24 EUR1.25 Ordinary 100
Tesco Ireland Pension Trustees 24 EUR1.25 Ordinary 100
Designated Activity Company
Tesco Joint Buying Service (Shanghai) 17 USD1.00 Ordinary 100
Co. Limited
Tesco Mobile Ireland Limited 24 EUR1.00 Ordinary 100
Tesco Sourcing India Private Limited 41 INR10 Ordinary 100
Tesco Stores ČR a.s. 7 CZK250 Ordinary 100
Tesco Stores SR, a.s. 57 EUR33,193.92 Ordinary 100
Tesco Technology and Services Europe 3 PLN50 Ordinary 100
sp. zo.o.
Tesco Trustee Company of Ireland Limited† 24 EUR1.25 Ordinary 100
TESCO-BST Üzleti és Technológiai 25 HUF10,000 Ordinary 100
Szolgáltatások Zârtköruen Múködó
Részvénytársaság
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 226 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 224.
Related undertakings of the Tesco Group continued
Associated undertakings Consolidated structured entities
The following associated undertakings were incorporated in the United Kingdom
Name of undertaking Registered address Nature of business
Delamare Finance PLC 11 Securitisation entity
Registered % held by
Name of undertaking address Class of share held Group Delamare Group Holdings Limited 11 Securitisation entity
Broadfields Management Limited 12 GBP0.10 Ordinary 35.33 Tesco Property Finance 2 PLC 11 Securitisation entity
Drift East Management Limited 65 GBP0.01 B Ordinary 17.50 Tesco Property Finance 5 PLC 11 Securitisation entity
Holmscroft H.C. Limited 23 GBP0.10 Ordinary 14.29 Tesco Property Finance 6 PLC 11 Securitisation entity
Latitude Management Company Limited 71 GBP1.00 Ordinary 0.95
* Undertaking where other share classes are held by a third party.
Shire Park Limited 15 GBP1.00 Ordinary 46.00 † Interest held directly by Tesco PLC.
(a) Company sold on 28 February 2025.
Tesco Jade (Nominee) Limited 29 GBP1.00 Ordinary 30 (b) 95% held by Tesco PLC.
Tesco Mobile Limited* 1 GBP0.10 A Ordinary 100 (c) 66.6% held by Tesco PLC.
(d) 50% held by Tesco PLC.
GBP0.90 B Ordinary 100 (e) Shares held by Tesco Pension Trustees Limited (TPTL), the corporate trustee of the Tesco PLC Pension Scheme (the Scheme).
W23 Global Fund LP 67 Limited Partnership 20 On behalf of the Scheme, TPTL holds a 50% shareholding in three property joint ventures with Tesco, and is the sole shareholder
of TPT Holdco No.1 Limited and Tesco Pension Investment Limited.
W23 Global GP LLP 67 Limited Liability Partnership 20 (f) One ordinary share of the same class partly paid.
(g) Company dissolved on 3 March 2025.
W23 Global Limited 67 GBP1.00 Ordinary 20
WBD (Chesterfield Management) Limited 53 GBP1.00 Ordinary 16.67
The following associated undertakings were incorporated outside of the United Kingdom
Registered % held by
Name of undertaking address Class of share held Group
Booker India Limited 72 INR5 Equity 49
dunnhumby Mitsui Bussan Customer 54 JPY50,000 Ordinary 50
Science Co., Ltd
dunnhumby Norge A.S. 55 NOK1,000 Ordinary 50
Fiora Hypermarket Limited 26 INR10 Equity 49
Fiora Online Limited 76 INR10 10% Non-Convertible 49
Redeemable Preference
INR10 0.01% Non-Cumulative 49
Redeemable Preference
INR10 Equity 49
Longford Centre Management Services 74 EUR1.25 Ordinary 53.23
Limited
Marketplacer Holdings Ltd 73 AUD1.37334 Preference 5.47
Merrion Shopping Centre Ltd 24 EUR0.012697 Ordinary 51.88
Tesco Mobile ČR s.r.o. 7 CZK100,000 Ordinary 50
Tesco Mobile Slovakia s.r.o. 54 EUR1.00 Ordinary 50
The Arena Unit Trust 33 – 50
The Blackpool Unit Trust 33 – 50
The Broadstairs Unit Trust 33 – 50
The Coventry Unit Trust 33 – 50
THPL Support Services Limited 72 INR100 Equity 50
Trent Hypermarket Private Limited 13 INR10 Equity 50
W23 Global Manager Pty Ltd 75 AUD1.00 Ordinary 20
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 227 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 225.
Related undertakings of the Tesco Group continued
1 Tesco House, Shire Park, Kestrel Way, Welwyn Garden City, AL7 1GA, United Kingdom 60 48 Rue Cambon, 75001, Paris, France
2 Apex Road, Brownhills, Walsall, West Midlands, WS8 7HU, United Kingdom 61 Room 1001, Enterprise Development Tower, Unit 01 – 10th Floor, No 398, Jiangsu Road, Changning District, Shanghai 200050,
3 ul. Przy Rondzie 4, 31-547 Kraków, Poland People’s Republic of China
4 184 Shepherds Bush Road, London, W6 7NL, United Kingdom 62 Room 2393, 2/F, No.3 Xuanhua Road, Changning District, Shanghai, People’s Republic of China
5 Atria One, 144 Morrison Street, Edinburgh, EH3 8EX, Scotland 63 R SM New Zealand, Level 2, 60 Highbrook Drive, East Tamaki, Auckland, 2013, New Zealand
6 2 South Gyle Crescent, Edinburgh, EH12 9FQ, United Kingdom 64 c/o RSM Australia Pty Ltd, Level 21, 55 Collins Street, Melbourne, VIC 3000, Australia
7 Vršovická 1527/68b, Vršovice, 100 00 Prague 10, Czech Republic 65 Prologis House, Blythe Gate, Blythe Valley Park, Solihull, England, B90 8AH
8 Equity House, Irthlingborough Road, Wellingborough, Northamptonshire, NN8 1LT, United Kingdom 66 Floor 3, 2 Harbour Square, Crofton Road, Dun Laoghaire, Dublin A96D6R0, Ireland
9 Ernst & Young LLP, 1 More London Place, London, SE1 2AF, United Kingdom 67 8 Sackville Street, London, W1S 3DG, United Kingdom
10 Suite 13.03, 13th Floor, Menara Tan & Tan, 207 Jalan Tun Razak, 50400 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 68 Av President Masarik No. 111, Piso 1, Colina Polance V Seccion Delegacion Miguel Hidalgo, Mexico 11560, Mexico
11 1 Bartholomew Lane, London, EC2N 2AX, United Kingdom 69 Kingsfordweg 151, 1043 GR Amsterdam, The Netherlands
12 2 Paris Parklands, Railton Road, Guildford, Surrey, GU2 9JX, United Kingdom 70 Dorey Court, Admiral Park, St. Peter Port, GY1 4AT, Guernsey
13 26th Floor, Vios Tower, New Cuffe Parade, Sewri-Chembur Road, Near Imax Dome Theatre, Wadala, Antop Hill, Mumbai, 71 Queensway House, 11 Queensway, New Milton, Hampshire, England, BH25 5NR
Maharashtra, India, 400037, India 72 C-60/G Block, Trent House, BKC, Near Citi Bank, Bandra (East), Mumbai 400051, India
14 Ritterstraße 6, 10969 Berlin, Germany 73 c/o Automic Pty Ltd, Suite 5, Level 12, 530 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Australia
15 Riverside House, 3 Place Farm, Wheathampstead, St. Albans, AL4 8SB, United Kingdom 74 Longford Shopping Centre, Longford Town, Co. Longford, Longford, N39 R7R6, Ireland
16 Avenida Brigadeiro Luís Antônio, No. 3530, CJ, 51 and 52 Jardim Paulista São Paulo 01402-001, Brazil 75 Suite 502, 80 Cooper Street, Surry Hills, New South Wales 2010, Australia
17 Unit 01, 02, 06, 07, 08, 09, Floor 17, No. 610 Xujiahui Road, Huangpu District, Shanghai, People’s Republic of China
18 Rue du Louvre, Spaces les Halles, Spaces 40, Paris 75001, France
19 No 319 Chamchuri Square Building, 24th Floor, Office no. 24116, Phayathai road, Pathumwan sub district, Pathumwan District,
Bangkok 10330, Thailand
20 2604-2605 AXA Tower, Landmark East, No. 100 How Ming Street, Kowloon, Hong Kong
21 5 Esperidon Street, 4th Floor, 2001 Strovolos, Nicosia, Cyprus
22 Avenida Santa María 5888, Piso 2 Zona A, Oficina 4, Vitacura, Santiago, 7660268, Chile
23 73 Union Street, Greenock, PA16 8BG, Ireland
24 Gresham House, Marine Road, Dun Laoghaire, Co. Dublin A96 HX70, Ireland
25 1138, Budapest, Váci út, 187, Hungary
26 Trent House, Plot No. C-60, G-Block, Besides Citi Bank, Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East), Mumbai 400051, India
27 PO Box 25, Regency Court, Glategny Esplanade, St. Peter Port, Guernsey, GY1 3AP
28 Level 1, IFC1 Esplanade, St Helier, Jersey, JE2 3BX
29 Carrera 48, No 32B Sur 139, OF 909 P. 9, Envigado, Antioquia, Medelin 055428, Colombia
30 c/o Rantalainen Oy, Helsinki Rajatorpantie 8, 01600 Vantaa, Finland
31 The Omnibus Building, Lesbourne Road, Reigate, Surrey, RH2 7LD, United Kingdom
32 2040 Budaörs, Kinizsi út 1-3, Budapest, Hungary
33 47 Esplanade, St Helier, Jersey, JE1 0BD
34 N o. 725 Metropolis Building, Level 20, Suite 161, Sukhumvit Road, Klongtan Nua
Sub-District, Wattana District, BANGKOK 10110, Thailand
35 c/o The Corporation Trust Company, 1209 Orange Street, Corporation Trust Center, Wilmington, DE 19801, United States
36 Ground Floor and First Floor, Worldmark 1, Asset Area 11, Aerocity, Hospitality District, Indira Ghandi Int. Airport, New Delhi,
South West Delhi DL 110037, India
37 Via Tiziano 32, Milan 20145, Italy
38 9th Floor, Shiroyama Trust Tower, 4-3-1, Toranomon 4-chome, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-6009, Japan
39 38/39 Fitzwilliam Square, Dublin 2, Ireland
40 Willemsparkweg 150H, 1071 HS, Amsterdam, The Netherlands
41 81 & 82, Tesco Bengaluru Campus, EPIP Area, Whitefield, Bangalore, Karnataka 560066, India
42 ul. Grzybowska 2/29, 00-131 Warsaw, Poland
43 237 Aloe Ridge 2, Stoneridge Drive Greenstone Hill, Gauteng, Johannesburg 1610, South Africa
44 3300 Great American Tower, 301 East Fourth Street, Cincinnati, OH, 45202, United States
45 Windward 1, Regatta Office Park, PO Box 897, Grand Cayman KY1 – 1103, Cayman Islands
46 c/o Vaish Associates, 106, Peninsula Centre, Dr. S. S. Rao Road, Parel Mumbai 400012, India
47 6th Floor, 125 London Wall, London, EC2Y 5AS, United Kingdom
48 Antonio Bellet 444 Oficina 504 Comuna de Las Condes, Ciudad de Santiago, 7500025, Chile
49 163 Tras Street, #03-01, Lian Huat Building, 079024, Singapore
50 48, 1D, Calle de Hermosilla 1ª, Madrid 28001, Spain
51 Centre de Commerces et de, Loisirs, Cite Europe, 62231 Coquelles, France
52 27/F One Taikoo Place, 979 King’s Road, Quarry Bay, Hong Kong
53 Barratt House, Cartwright Way Forest Business Park, Bardon Hill, Coalville, Leicestershire, LE67 1UF, United Kingdom
54 Pribinova 40, Bratislava 811 09, Slovakia
55 Rosenkrantzgate 16, Oslo O160, Norway
56 C/O GALST Advokataktieselskab, Gammel Strand 44, Kobenhavn K, 1202, Denmark
57 Cesta na Senec 2, Bratislava, 821 04, Slovakia
58 1400-340 Albert Street, Ottawa, Ontario K1R 0A5, Canada
59 4th Floor, Tower B, Paras Twin Towers, DLF Golf Course Road, Sector 54, Gurgaon, Haryana-HR, 122002, India
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 228 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 226.
Supplementary information (unaudited)
One-year like-for-like sales performance (exc. VAT, exc. fuel) Group space summary
Actual Group space – store numbers(a)
Like-for-like sales
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 H1 H2 FY 2023/24 Closures/ Net gain/ 2024/25 Repurposing/
2024/25 2024/25 2024/25 2024/25 2024/25 2024/25 2024/25 year end Openings disposals (reduction)(b) year end extensions(c)
UK & ROI 3.6% 2.5% 2.8% 3.6% 3.1% 3.2% 3.1% Large 809 2 (2) - 809 30
UK 4.6% 3.5% 3.8% 4.3% 4.0% 4.1% 4.0% Convenience 2,048 55 (9) 46 2,094 -
ROI 4.4% 5.1% 4.2% 4.5% 4.7% 4.4% 4.6% Dotcom only 6 - - - 6 -
Booker (1.3)% (2.5)% (2.6)% (0.6)% (1.9)% (1.6)% (1.8)% Total Tesco 2,863 57 (11) 46 2,909 30
Central Europe 0.6% 0.6% 2.8% 4.8% 0.6% 3.8% 2.2% One Stop(d) 733 7 (10) (3) 730 -
Like-for-like 3.4% 2.4% 2.8% 3.7% 2.9% 3.2% 3.1% Booker 190 - - - 190 -
sales growth UK(d) 3,786 64 (21) 43 3,829 30
ROI 170 12 - 12 182 -
Growth in sales (exc. VAT, exc. fuel) UK & ROI(d) 3,956 76 (21) 55 4,011 30
Czech Republic(d) 184 3 (3) - 184 14
Actual rates Constant rates
H1 H2 FY H1 H2 FY Hungary 197 1 - 1 198 49
2024/25 2024/25 2024/25 2024/25 2024/25 2024/25 Slovakia(d) 169 10 - 10 179 16
UK & ROI* 4.1% 3.9% 4.0% 4.2% 4.1% 4.2% Central Europe(d) 550 14 (3) 11 561 79
UK* 5.4% 4.8% 5.1% 5.4% 4.8% 5.1% Group(d) 4,506 90 (24) 66 4,572 109
ROI 3.6% 2.2% 2.9% 5.6% 5.6% 5.6% UK (One Stop) 317 54 (17) 37 354 -
Booker (1.7)% (0.3)% (1.0)% (1.7)% (0.3)% (1.0)% Czech Republic 119 1 (6) (5) 114 -
Central Europe (4.2)% (1.9)% (3.0)% 0.9% 4.0% 2.5% Franchise stores 436 55 (23) 32 468 -
Growth in sales* 3.5% 3.5% 3.5% 4.0% 4.1% 4.0% Total Group 4,942 145 (47) 98 5,040 109
* H1 restated to include the Insurance and Money Services business. (a) Continuing operations.
Country level revenue detail is provided in Note 3. (b) The net gain/(reduction) reflects the number of store openings less the number of store closures/disposals and, for sq. ft. tables,
adjustments for repurposing/extensions.
(c) Repurposing of retail selling space.
UK sales area by size of store
(d) Excludes franchise stores.
22 February 2025 24 February 2024
% of total % of total
Store size (sq. ft.) No. of stores Million sq. ft. sq. ft. No. of stores(a) Million sq. ft.(a) sq. ft.
0–3,000 2,716 5.9 15.4% 2,675 5.8 15.0%
3,001–20,000 281 3.0 7.7% 279 2.9 7.5%
20,001–40,000 302 9.0 23.3% 279 7.6 19.6%
40,001–60,000 192 9.7 25.2% 174 8.5 22.0%
60,001–80,000 111 7.6 19.6% 139 9.4 24.3%
80,001–100,000 31 2.7 7.0% 40 3.5 9.0%
Over 100,000 6 0.7 1.8% 10 1.0 2.6%
Total(b) 3,639 38.6 100.0% 3,596 38.7 100.0%
(a) The prior year has been re-presented for sales areas remeasurements.
(b) Excludes Booker and franchise stores.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 229 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 227.
Supplementary information (unaudited) continued
Actual Group space – ’000 sq. ft.(a) Group space forecast to 28 February 2026 – ’000 sq. ft.(a)
2023/24 Closures/ Repurposing/ Net gain/ 2024/25 2024/25 Closures/ Repurposing/ Net gain/ 2025/26
year end(e) Openings disposals extensions(c) (reduction)(b) year end year end Openings disposals extensions(c) (reduction)(b) year end
Large 31,344 38 (55) (235) (252) 31,092 Large 31,092 73 - 8 81 31,173
Convenience 5,455 188 (28) - 160 5,615 Convenience 5,615 150 (22) 3 131 5,746
Dotcom only 716 - - - - 716 Dotcom only 716 - - - - 716
Total Tesco 37,515 226 (83) (235) (92) 37,423 Total Tesco 37,423 223 (22) 11 212 37,635
One Stop(d) 1,208 12 (15) - (3) 1,205 One Stop(d) 1,205 17 (2) - 15 1,220
Booker 7,951 - - - - 7,951 Booker 7,951 - (12) - (12) 7,939
UK(d) 46,674 238 (98) (235) (95) 46,579 UK(d) 46,579 240 (36) 11 215 46,794
ROI 3,499 73 - - 73 3,572 ROI 3,572 82 - - 82 3,654
UK & ROI(d) 50,173 311 (98) (235) (22) 50,151 UK & ROI(d) 50,151 322 (36) 11 297 50,448
Czech Republic(d) 4,101 61 (45) (32) (16) 4,085 Czech Republic(d) 4,085 33 (3) (17) 13 4,098
Hungary 5,372 4 - (60) (56) 5,316 Hungary 5,316 16 (3) (49) (36) 5,280
Slovakia(d) 3,213 19 - (53) (34) 3,179 Slovakia(d) 3,179 116 - (33) 83 3,262
Central Europe(d) 12,686 84 (45) (145) (106) 12,580 Central Europe(d) 12,580 165 (6) (99) 60 12,640
Group(d) 62,859 395 (143) (380) (128) 62,731 Group(d) 62,731 487 (42) (88) 357 63,088
UK (One Stop) 459 73 (23) - 50 509 UK (One Stop) 509 11 - - 11 520
Czech Republic 108 1 (6) - (5) 103 Czech Republic 103 - (1) - (1) 102
Franchise stores 567 74 (29) - 45 612 Franchise stores 612 11 (1) - 10 622
Total Group 63,426 469 (172) (380) (83) 63,343 Total Group 63,343 498 (43) (88) 367 63,710
(a)-(d) Refer to previous table for footnotes. Refer to previous table for footnotes.
(e) The prior year has been re-presented for sales areas remeasurements.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 230 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 228.
Glossary – Alternative performance measures
Alternative performance
measures.
Introduction Changes to APMs
In the reporting of financial information, the Directors have adopted various Alternative performance Following the disposal of the Group’s Banking operations, management has reviewed the definition of
measures (APMs). each APM, with the following changes:
These measures are not defined by International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and therefore – EBITDA (previously Retail EBITDA) has been refined to include the continuing Insurance and Money
may not be directly comparable with other companies’ APMs, including those in the Group’s industry. Services business. This reflects the Group’s new segmental reporting structure (refer to Note 2) and
APMs should be considered in addition to, and are not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, ensures that all continuing operations are included in the APM. Comparatives have been restated.
IFRS measures. – Net debt has been refined to include the continuing Insurance and Money Services business and
exclude all discontinued operations. This reflects the Group’s new segmental reporting structure
Purpose
(refer to Note 2) and ensures that all continuing operations are included in the APM. Comparatives
The Directors believe that these APMs assist in providing additional useful information on the trends, have been restated.
performance and position of the Group. APMs aid comparability between geographical units or – The Group no longer makes the distinction between Retail and Tesco Bank (refer to Note 2).
provide measures that are widely used across the industry. They also aid comparability between Accordingly, Retail free cash flow is now called Free cash flow. Free cash flow does not include cash
reporting periods; adjusting for certain costs or incomes that derive from events or transactions that generated directly by the Insurance and Money Services business but does include any ordinary cash
fall within the normal activities of the Group but which, by virtue of their size or nature, are adjusted, dividends this business pays to Tesco PLC.
can provide a helpful alternative perspective on year-on-year trends, performance and position that
In addition to the changes set out above, management has made the following clarifications:
aids comparability over time.
– Free cash flow and Capex have been refined to also exclude refit costs directly associated with store
The alternative view presented by these APMs is consistent with how management views the business,
purchases (including those acquired through business combinations). Such costs are a necessary
and how it is reported internally to the Board and Executive Committee for performance analysis,
and directly attributable cost of such acquisitions. The impact is immaterial to both the current and
planning, reporting, decision-making and incentive-setting purposes.
prior year, and as such, comparatives have not been restated.
Further information on the Group’s adjusting items, which is a critical accounting judgement, can be – The Group has updated the name Adjusted total finance costs to Adjusted net finance costs to
found in Notes 1 and 5. reflect that this APM includes finance income as well as finance cost. This name change does not
change the composition or quantification of the amount in the current or prior year.
Some of the Group’s IFRS measures are translated at constant exchange rates. Constant exchange
rates are the average actual periodic exchange rates for the previous financial period and are used to Management has introduced one additional APM:
eliminate the effects of exchange rate fluctuations in assessing performance. Actual exchange rates
– Return on capital employed (ROCE), which is defined as Adjusted operating profit divided by the
are the average actual periodic exchange rates for that financial period.
average of opening and closing capital employed from continuing operations. This metric represents
All income statement measures are presented on a continuing operations basis. the profit generated as a proportion of the total average capital that the business has utilised in the
period. Management believes this is a useful measure to assess performance.
Management has discontinued two APMs:
– Total indebtedness and Total indebtedness ratio are no longer used as APMs by management as they
do not drive decision making and therefore have less relevance in assessing performance.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 231 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 229.
Glossary – Alternative performance measures continued
Group APMs
Closest equivalent Adjustments to reconcile
APM IFRS measure to IFRS measure Definition and purpose
Income statement
Revenue measures
Sales Revenue – Fuel sales – Excludes the impact of fuel sales made at petrol filling stations. This removes volatilities outside of the control of management, associated
with the movement in fuel prices.
– This measure is presented on a country, segmental and Group continuing operations basis.
– This is a key management incentive metric.
Growth in sales No direct equivalent – Ratio N/A – Growth in sales is a ratio that measures year-on-year movement in Group sales for continuing operations for 52 weeks ended 22 February
2025 (52 weeks ended 24 February 2024). It shows the annual rate of increase in the Group’s sales and is considered a good indicator of how
rapidly the Group’s core business is growing.
– This measure is presented at both actual and constant foreign exchange rates.
Like-for-like (LFL) sales No direct equivalent – Ratio N/A – LFL sales growth is a measure of growth in Group online sales and sales from stores that have been open for at least a year (but excludes prior
growth year sales of stores closed during the year) at constant foreign exchange rates.
– It excludes revenue from dunnhumby and Insurance and Money Services, as this revenue is not directly linked to the sale of goods.
– It is a widely used indicator of a retailer’s current trading performance and is important when comparing growth between retailers that have
different profiles of expansion, disposals and closures.
Profit measures
Adjusted operating Operating profit from – Adjusting items(b) – Adjusted operating profit is the headline measure of the Group’s performance, based on operating profit from continuing operations before
profit continuing operations(a) the impact of adjusting items. Refer to the APM Purpose section of the Glossary and Note 1 for further information on adjusting items.
– Amortisation of acquired intangibles is included within adjusting items because it relates to inorganic business combinations and does not
reflect the Group’s ongoing trading performance (related revenue and other costs from acquisitions are not adjusted).
– This measure is presented on a segmental and Group continuing operations basis.
– This is a key management incentive metric.
Adjusted net finance Net finance costs – Adjusting items(b) – Adjusting items within net finance costs include net pension finance income/(costs) and fair value remeasurements on financial instruments.
costs Net pension finance income/(costs) are impacted by corporate bond yields, which can fluctuate significantly and are reset each year based
on external market factors that are outside management’s control. Fair value remeasurements are impacted by changes to credit risk and
various market indices, applying to financial instruments resulting from liability management exercises, which can fluctuate significantly
outside of management’s control. This measure helps to provide an alternative view of year-on-year trends in the Group’s net finance costs.
Adjusted profit before Profit before tax – Adjusting items(b) – This measure is the summation of the impact of all adjusting items on profit before tax. Refer to the APM Purpose section of the Glossary and
tax Note 1 for further information on adjusting items.
Adjusted operating No direct equivalent – Ratio N/A – Adjusted operating margin is calculated as adjusted operating profit divided by revenue. Progression in Adjusted operating margin is an
margin important indicator of the Group’s operating efficiency.
Adjusted diluted Diluted earnings per – Adjusting items(b) – This metric shows the adjusted profit after tax from continuing operations attributable to owners of the parent divided by the weighted
earnings share from continuing average number of ordinary shares in issue during the financial period, adjusted for the effects of dilutive share options.
per share operations
EBITDA (earnings Operating profit from – Adjusting items(b) – This measure is widely used by analysts, investors and other users of the accounts to evaluate comparable profitability of companies, as it
before adjusting continuing operations(a) – Depreciation and excludes the impact of differing capital structures and tax positions, variations in tangible asset portfolios, and differences in identification
items, interest, tax, amortisation and recognition of intangible assets. It is used to derive the Net debt/EBITDA ratio, and Fixed charge cover APMs.
depreciation and
amortisation)
Tax measures
Adjusted effective Effective tax rate – Adjusting items(b) – Adjusted effective tax rate is calculated as total income tax credit/(charge) excluding the tax impact of adjusting items, divided by adjusted
tax rate profit before tax. This APM provides an indication of the ongoing tax rate across the Group.
(a) Operating profit is presented on the Group income statement and is a generally accepted profit measure.
(b) Refer to Note 1 and Note 5.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 232 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 230.
Glossary – Alternative performance measures continued
Group APMs continued
Closest equivalent Adjustments to reconcile
APM IFRS measure to IFRS measure Definition and purpose
Balance sheet measures
Net debt No direct equivalent – N/A – Net debt excludes the net debt of discontinued operations to reflect the net debt obligations of the continuing business.
– Net debt comprises borrowings, lease liabilities and net derivative financial instruments, offset by cash and cash equivalents, short-term
investments, joint venture loans, and interest and other receivables.
– It is a useful measure of the progress in generating cash and strengthening of the Group’s balance sheet position, and is a measure widely used
by credit rating agencies.
Net debt/EBITDA No direct equivalent – Ratio N/A – Net debt/EBITDA ratio is calculated as Net debt divided by the rolling 12-month EBITDA. It is a measure of the Group’s ability to meet its payment
ratio obligations, showing how long it would take the Group to repay its current net debt if both net debt and EBITDA remained constant. It is widely
used by analysts and credit rating agencies.
Fixed charge cover No direct equivalent – Ratio N/A – Fixed charge cover is calculated as the rolling 12-month EBITDA divided by the sum of net finance costs (excluding net pension finance costs,
finance charges payable on lease liabilities, capitalised interest and fair value remeasurements on financial instruments) and all lease liability
payments from continuing operations. It is a measure of the Group’s ability to meet its payment obligations and is widely used by analysts
and credit rating agencies.
Capex Property, plant and – Additions relating to – Capex excludes additions arising from business combinations, buybacks of properties (typically stores), purchases of store properties, refits
equipment, intangible property buybacks associated with business combinations and purchases of store properties, as well as additions relating to decommissioning provisions and
asset, and investment and store purchases similar items.
property additions, – Additions relating – Property buybacks and purchases of store properties are variable in timing, with the number and value of transactions dependent on
excluding those from to decommissioning opportunities that arise within any given financial year. Excluding property buybacks and store property purchases therefore gives an
business combinations provisions and alternative view of trends in capital expenditure in the Group’s ongoing trading operations.
similar items – Additions relating to decommissioning provisions and similar items are adjusted because they do not result in near-term cash outflows.
Return on capital No direct equivalent – Ratio N/A – Return on capital employed (ROCE) is Adjusted operating profit divided by the average of opening and closing capital employed from
employed (ROCE) continuing operations.
– Capital employed from continuing operations is defined as net assets of the Group excluding: the pension deficit/surplus; net assets of the
disposal group and non-current assets classified as held for sale; current and deferred tax balances and an adjustment to remove the impact
of deferred tax liabilities recorded against identified assets acquired in business combinations; and Net debt.
– This metric represents the profit generated as a proportion of the total average capital that the business has utilised in the period.
– Management believes this is a useful measure to assess performance.
Cash flow measures
Free cash flow No direct equivalent – N/A – Free cash flow includes:
– Continuing cash flows from operating activities of the business, excluding Insurance and Money Services and adjusting operating cash flows.
– Investing cash flows excluding Insurance and Money Services relating to: the purchase of property, plant and equipment (excluding property
buybacks and store purchases and refits associated with both store purchases and business combinations) and investment property;
purchase of intangible assets; dividends received from Insurance and Money Services (excluding special dividends); dividends received from
joint ventures and associates; and interest received.
– Financing cash flows excluding Insurance and Money Services relating to: market purchase of shares net of proceeds from shares issued in
relation to share schemes; and repayment of obligations under leases.
– Directors and management believe this provides a view of free cash flow generated by the Group’s trading operations, excluding Insurance and
Money Services, that is more predictable and comparable over time, and reflects the cash available to shareholders. Insurance and Money
Services is excluded because free cash flow is not a common metric within this industry.
– This is a key management incentive metric.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 233 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 231.
Glossary – Alternative performance measures continued
APMs: Reconciliation of income statement measures APMs: Reconciliation of balance sheet measures
Sales Net debt
A reconciliation of Sales is provided in Note 2. A reconciliation of Net debt is provided in Note 32.
Growth in sales and Like-for-like (LFL) sales growth Reconciliation from Free cash flow to Net debt
Continuing operations Notes 2025 2024 2025 2024
Revenue – current year (£m) 2, 3 69,916 68,187 (restated*)
Notes £m £m
Revenue – prior year (£m) 2, 3 68,187 65,322
Opening Net debt 32 (9,684) (10,049)
Revenue growth 2.5% 4.4%
Exclude: Fuel impact 1.0% 3.0%
Free cash flow 1,750 2,063
Growth in sales at actual rate 3.5% 7.4%
Exclude: Foreign exchange 0.5% (0.2)%
Other cash movements:
Growth in sales at constant rate 4.0% 7.2%
Own shares purchased for cancellation (1,016) (752)
Exclude: Revenue from dunnhumby and Insurance and Money Services (0.4)% (0.2)%
Dividends paid to equity owners (864) (778)
Exclude: Underlying net new space impact (0.5)% (0.2)%
Adjusting items included in operating cash flow activities (81) (100)
Like-for-like sales growth 3.1% 6.8%
Repayments of capital element of obligations under leases 600 625
Interest paid on lease liabilities 377 373
Adjusted operating profit and EBITDA
Net other interest paid/(received) 136 202
2025 2024
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment, investment 137 55
(restated*)
Continuing operations Notes £m £m property, intangible assets and assets held for sale
Operating profit 2 2,711 2,821 Cash outflows attributable to property buybacks and store purchases (225) (121)
Exclude: Adjusting items 5 417 8 Disposal of Banking operations, net of costs to sell 8 586 -
Adjusted operating profit 2 3,128 2,829 Other cash movements (21) (91)
Include: Depreciation and amortisation before adjusting items 1,697 1,619
EBITDA 4,825 4,448 Non-cash movements in Net debt:
* Following the disposal of the Group’s Banking operations, EBITDA is now presented on a Group continuing operations basis Fair value movements 20 (80)
including Insurance and Money Services rather than on a Retail basis. Comparatives have been restated. Foreign exchange movements 44 126
Adjusted profit before tax Net interest charge (144) (175)
A reconciliation of Adjusted profit before tax is provided in the Group income statement. Non-cash movements in lease liabilities (1,066) (916)
Adjusted operating margin Non-cash movement arising from acquisitions and disposals (5) (68)
A reconciliation of Adjusted operating margin is provided in Note 2. Other non-cash movements 2 2
Adjusted diluted earnings per share Closing Net debt 32 (9,454) (9,684)
A reconciliation of Adjusted diluted earnings per share is provided in Note 10. * Following the disposal of the Group’s Banking operations, Net debt is now presented on a Group continuing operations basis
including Insurance and Money Services, rather than on a Retail basis including Retail discontinued operations. Comparatives have
Adjusted effective tax rate been restated.
A reconciliation of Adjusted effective tax rate is provided in Note 7.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 234 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 232.
Glossary – Alternative performance measures continued
APMs: Reconciliation of balance sheet measures continued
Net debt/EBITDA ratio Capex
2025 2024 2025 2024
(restated*) Notes £m £m
Notes £m £m Property, plant and equipment additions(a) 12 1,361 1,198
Net debt 32 9,454 9,684
Goodwill and other intangible asset additions(a) 11 286 275
EBITDA 4,825 4,448
Exclude: Additions from obtaining control of property joint venture(b) 12 - (65)
Net debt/EBITDA ratio 2.0 2.2
Exclude: Additions from property buybacks 12 (157) (78)
* Following the disposal of the Group’s Banking operations, EBITDA is now presented on a Group continuing operations basis Exclude: Additions from store purchases and associated refits 12 (24) (29)
including Insurance and Money Services rather than on a Retail basis. Net debt is now presented on a Group continuing operations
basis including Insurance and Money Services, rather than on a Retail basis including Retail discontinued operations. Comparatives Exclude: Additions from refits associated with business combinations 12 (18) -
have been restated.
Exclude: Additions relating to decommissioning provisions and similar items 9 13
Capex 1,457 1,314
(a) Excluding amounts acquired through business combinations.
(b) Acquisition of The Tesco Coral Limited Partnership in 2024.
Adjusted net finance costs and Fixed charge cover Return on capital employed (ROCE)
2025 2024 2025 2024
(restated(a)) Notes £m £m
Notes £m £m
Adjusted operating profit 2 3,128 2,829
Net finance costs 6 492 538
Exclude: Net pension finance income/(costs) 6 (32) (18)
Capital employed from continuing operations:
Exclude: Fair value remeasurements of financial instruments 6 76 38
Net assets 11,662 11,665
Adjusted net finance costs(b) 536 558
Exclude: Pension deficit/(surplus) gross of deferred tax 29 251 635
Exclude: Interest expense on lease liabilities(c) 6 (377) (373)
Exclude: Assets of the disposal group and non-current assets classified as (50) (7,783)
Adjusted net finance cost, excluding finance charges payable on lease 159 185
held for sale
liabilities
Exclude: Liabilities of the disposal group classified as held for sale - 7,122
Include: Total lease liability payments 13 980 1,000
Exclude: Net current tax (asset)/liability (14) (109)
Exclude: Discontinued operations total lease liability payments (3) (3)
Exclude: Deferred tax assets (47) (32)
1,136 1,182
Exclude: Deferred tax liabilities 503 269
EBITDA 4,825 4,448
Exclude: Adjustment to remove the impact of deferred tax liabilities recorded (133) (128)
Fixed charge cover (ratio) 4.2 3.8
against identified assets acquired in business combinations
(a) Following the disposal of the Group’s Banking operations, EBITDA is now presented on a Group continuing operations basis Exclude: Net debt 32 9,454 9,684
including Insurance and Money Services rather than on a Retail basis. Comparatives for EBITDA and Fixed charge cover (ratio) have
been restated. All other components of this APM were on a Group continuing operations basis so have not been restated. Capital employed 21,626 21,323
(b) Adjusted net finance costs were previously called Adjusted total finance costs. The amended name more clearly reflects the Average capital employed from continuing operations* 21,475 21,072
inclusion of both finance income and costs. The composition of the APM has not changed.
(c) Interest expense on lease liabilities is presented gross of £7m hedging impact (2024: £nil).
Return on capital employed (ROCE) 14.6% 13.4%
* The opening capital employed for 2024 is for the Retail business only because Banking operations were not classified as held for
sale at 25 February 2023. The closing capital employed for 2024, opening capital employed for 2025 and closing capital employed
for 2025 all include Insurance and Money Services. The 2025 ROCE would have been c.25bps lower had Insurance and Money
Services been excluded. The impact on 2024 of including Insurance and Money Services would also have been immaterial.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 235 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 233.
Glossary – Alternative performance measures continued
APMs: Reconciliation of cash flow measures
Free cash flow
Continuing operations excluding Insurance and Money Insurance and Discontinued
Services Money Services operations Tesco Group
Before adjusting
items Adjusting items Total Total Total Total
52 weeks ended 22 February 2025 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Operating profit/(loss) of continuing operations 2,973 (403) 2,570 141 - 2,711
Operating profit/(loss) of discontinued operations - - - - 35 35
Depreciation and amortisation 1,680 78 1,758 17 - 1,775
Net impairment loss/(reversal) on property, plant and equipment, right of use assets, intangible 12 286 298 - - 298
assets and investment property
Net remeasurement (gain)/loss on non-current assets held for sale - - - - 64 64
Defined benefit pension scheme payments (30) - (30) - - (30)
Share-based payments 39 - 39 (6) 4 37
Fair value movements included in operating profit/(loss) - - - (7) 16 9
Other reconciling items(a) 18 (15) 3 8 - 11
Cash generated from/(used in) operations excluding working capital 4,692 (54) 4,638 153 119 4,910
(Increase)/decrease in working capital (45) (1) (46) (860) 53 (853)
Cash generated from/(used in) operations 4,647 (55) 4,592 (707) 172 4,057
Interest paid (755) - (755) (13) (1) (769)
Corporation tax paid (355) - (355) (11) - (366)
Net cash generated from/(used in) operating activities 3,537 (55) 3,482 (731) 171 2,922
Include the following cash flows generated from/(used in) investing activities:
Purchase of property, plant and equipment and investment property(b) (1,112) - (1,112) (2) - (1,114)
Purchase of intangible assets (280) - (280) (5) (7) (292)
Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 2 - 2 - - 2
Interest received 255 - 255 - - 255
Include the following cash flows generated from/(used in) financing activities:
Own shares purchased for share schemes, net of cash received from employees (54) - (54) - - (54)
Repayment of capital element of obligations under leases (598) - (598) (2) (2) (602)
Free cash flow 1,750
(a) Other reconciling items consist of individually immaterial items, primarily relating to (profit)/loss arising on sale of property, plant and equipment, investment property, intangible assets, assets classified as held for sale and early termination of leases. Refer to the Group
cash flow statement.
(b) Total purchase of property, plant and equipment and investment property in the Group cash flow statement of £(1,247)m (2024: £(1,108)m) excluding £(133)m (2024: £(59)m) of store buybacks, direct store purchases and refits associated with both direct store purchases
and business combinations.
During the year, the Insurance and Money Services business divested of an investment portfolio (refer to Note 16), included in Proceeds from sale of other investments in the Group cash flow statement, and
used the proceeds to settle deposits from central bank of £908m drawn under the Bank of England’s Term Funding Scheme with additional incentives for small and medium-sized enterprises (TFSME). Refer to
Note 25. The repayment of the deposit is included in (Increase)/decrease in working capital above.
No ordinary dividends were received by Tesco PLC from the Insurance and Money Services business (2024: £nil).
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 236 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 234.
Glossary – Alternative performance measures continued
APMs: Reconciliation of cash flow measures continued
Insurance and Discontinued
Continuing operations excluding Insurance and Money Services Money Services operations Tesco Group
Before adjusting
items Adjusting items Total Total Total Total
52 weeks ended 24 February 2024 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Operating profit/(loss) of continuing operations 2,760 (5) 2,755 66 - 2,821
Operating profit/(loss) of discontinued operations - - - - (659) (659)
Depreciation and amortisation 1,602 75 1,677 17 29 1,723
Net impairment loss/(reversal) on property, plant and equipment, right of use assets, intangible - (28) (28) - - (28)
assets and investment property
Net remeasurement (gain)/loss on non-current assets held for sale - (12) (12) - 732 720
Defined benefit pension scheme payments (29) - (29) - - (29)
Share-based payments 75 - 75 (3) 6 78
Fair value movements included in operating profit/(loss) 6 - 6 3 62 71
Other reconciling items(a) 1 (84) (83) 9 - (74)
Cash generated from/(used in) operations excluding working capital 4,415 (54) 4,361 92 170 4,623
(Increase)/decrease in working capital 418 (44) 374 (104) (7) 263
Cash generated from/(used in) operations 4,833 (98) 4,735 (12) 163 4,886
Interest paid (809) - (809) (14) (1) (824)
Corporation tax paid (214) - (214) (9) - (223)
Net cash generated from/(used in) operating activities 3,810 (98) 3,712 (35) 162 3,839
Include the following cash flows generated from/(used in) investing activities:
Purchase of property, plant and equipment and investment property(b) (1,039) - (1,039) (10) - (1,049)
Purchase of intangible assets (250) - (250) (6) (22) (278)
Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 9 - 9 - - 9
Interest received 249 - 249 - - 249
Include the following cash flows generated from/(used in) financing activities:
Own shares purchased for share schemes, net of cash received from employees (93) - (93) - - (93)
Repayment of capital element of obligations under leases (623) - (623) (2) (2) (627)
Free cash flow 2,063
Refer to previous table for footnotes.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 237 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 235.
Glossary
Other.
BPS Market capitalisation
Basis points, or bps, is a unit of measurement equal to 1/100th of 1%. The total value of all Tesco shares calculated as total number of shares multiplied by the
closing share price at the year end.
CPI
Consumer price index. MTN
Medium term note.
Dividend per share
This is calculated as interim dividend per share paid plus final dividend per share declared MREL
in respect of that financial year. Minimum requirements for own funds and eligible liabilities (European Banking Authority).
Enterprise value Net promoter score (NPS)
This is calculated as market capitalisation plus net debt. This is a loyalty measure based on a single question requiring a score between 0-10. The NPS is
calculated by subtracting the percentage of detractors (scoring 0-6) from the percentage of
Expected credit loss (ECL)
promoters (scoring 9-10). This generates a figure between -100 and 100 which is the NPS.
Credit loss represents the portion of the debt that a company is unlikely to recover. The expected
credit loss is the projected future losses based on probability-weighted calculations. RPI
Retail price index.
ESG
Environmental, social and governance. SONIA
Sterling Overnight Index Average.
FTE
Full-time equivalents. Total shareholder return
The notional annualised return from a share, measured as the percentage change in the share price,
LPI
plus the dividends paid, with the gross dividends reinvested in Tesco shares. This is measured over
Limited price index. both a one and five-year period.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 238 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 236.
Five-year record.
The statistics below reflect the latest published information. Following the disposal of the Group’s Banking operations, the remaining Insurance and Money Services business is now part of the UK & ROI segment.
The amended performance measures, including Return on capital employed and Net debt, are now shown on a Group continuing operations basis for 2025 and 2024. For the years before 2024, these measures
were reported on a Retail basis and have not been restated. The information for 2023 reflects the adoption of IFRS 17 and the presentation of Banking operations as a discontinued operation. For financial years
prior to 2023, these statistics are not restated and represent the comparatives from those years’ financial statements. During 2021, the Group disposed of its operations in Asia and agreed to dispose of its
operations in Poland, which were treated as discontinued. Refer to the Glossary for a full list of APMs and their definitions.
2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025
Financial statistics (£m) Other financial statistics
SalesΔ Diluted earnings/(losses) per share – continuing 5.58p 19.64p 8.81p 24.53p 23.13p
UK & ROI(a) 48,848 49,984 52,369 57,155 59,450 operations
Central Europe 3,862 3,862 4,181 4,322 4,186 Adjusted diluted earnings per shareΔ 9.24p 21.86p 20.53p 23.41p 27.38p
Tesco Bank(b) 735 922 666 - - Dividend per share(c) 9.15p 10.90p 10.90p 12.10p 13.70p
Group salesΔ 53,445 54,768 57,216 61,477 63,636 Cash generated from continuing operating activities 321 3,614 3,752 3,712 3,482
excluding Insurance and Money Services (£m)(d)
Revenue
UK & ROI(a) 53,170 56,404 60,246 63,691 65,583 Free cash flow (£m)Δ(e) 1,340 2,277 2,133 2,063 1,750
Central Europe 3,982 4,018 4,410 4,496 4,333 Return on capital employed (ROCE)Δ(e) 8.7% 12.1% 11.8% 13.4% 14.6%
Tesco Bank(b) 735 922 666 - - Total shareholder return 2.6% 32.4% (10.5)% 17.8% 39.0%
Net debt (£m)Δ(e) 11,955 10,516 10,493 9,684 9,454
Group revenue 57,887 61,344 65,322 68,187 69,916
Adjusted operating profit/(loss)Δ Enterprise value (£m) 29,336 32,403 28,562 29,452 34,657
UK & ROI(a) 1,839 2,481 2,307 2,739 3,016 Group statistics(f)
Central Europe 124 168 180 90 112 Number of stores(g) 4,673 4,752 4,859 4,942 5,040
Tesco Bank(b) (175) 176 22 - - Total sales area (’000 sq. ft.)(g)(h) 63,980 64,034 63,835 63,426 63,343
Group adjusted operating profit/(loss)Δ 1,788 2,825 2,509 2,829 3,128 Average employees 367,321 354,744 336,926 335,392 341,108
Adjusted operating marginΔ 3.1% 4.6% 3.8% 4.1% 4.5% Average full-time equivalent employees (FTE) 242,911 231,223 222,306 223,636 229,140
Operating profit/(loss) UK & ROI statistics(a)
UK & ROI(a) 1,890 2,191 1,249 2,755 2,729 Number of stores(g) 4,008 4,074 4,169 4,273 4,365
Central Europe 127 193 144 66 (18) Total sales area (’000 sq. ft.)(g)(h) 50,443 50,588 50,735 50,632 50,660
Tesco Bank(b) (470) 176 17 - - Average full-time equivalent employees (FTE) 214,470 204,974 196,911 203,107 208,650
Sales (per FTE – £) 227,761 243,855 267,765 281,403 284,927
Group operating profit/(loss) 1,547 2,560 1,410 2,821 2,711
Share of post-tax profits/(losses) of joint ventures and 26 15 8 6 (4) Weekly Sales (per sq. ft. – £)(h) 18.63 19.03 19.88 21.71 22.57
associates Δ See APM definitions and reconciliations in the Glossary section on pages 228 to 235.
Net finance costs (937) (542) (536) (538) (492) (a) Following the sale of the Group’s Banking operations, 2025 and 2024 UK & ROI information includes the retained Insurance and
Money Services business. Years prior to 2024 have not been restated.
Profit/(loss) before tax 636 2,033 882 2,289 2,215 (b) The 2023 statistics reflect the adoption of IFRS 17 and the presentation of Banking operations as a discontinued operation. Years
Taxation (104) (510) (224) (525) (611) prior to 2023 have not been restated.
(c) Dividend per share relating to the interim and proposed final dividend.
Profit/(loss) for the year from continuing operations 532 1,523 658 1,764 1,604
(d) For 2021 to 2023, this measure excludes Tesco Bank.
Discontinued operations(b) 5,426 (40) 78 (572) 26 (e) Following the sale of the Group’s Banking operations, Return on capital employed and Net debt are presented on a Group
Profit/(loss) for the year 5,958 1,483 736 1,192 1,630 continuing operations basis for 2025 and 2024. Both measures were previously on a Retail basis. Retail free cash flow is now called
Free cash flow and includes refits associated with store purchases and business combinations in 2025. Prior years have not been
Attributable to: restated. See Glossary for changes to APMs.
Owners of the parent 5,954 1,481 737 1,188 1,626 (f) On a continuing operations basis.
(g) Including franchise stores.
Non-controlling interests 4 2 (1) 4 4
(h) 2024 has been re-presented for sales areas remeasurements. Refer to page 227.
Adjusted profit before taxΔ 1,134 2,197 1,954 2,277 2,588
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 239 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 237.
Directors’ report.
The Directors present their report, together Directors’ statement of disclosure
Information Location in this Annual Report Pages
with the audited accounts for the 52 weeks of information to the auditor
ended 22 February 2025. Appointment and retirement of Directors Nominations and Governance 72 to 74
Each of the persons who is a Director at the date Committee report
In addition to the information set out herein, of approval of this Annual Report confirms that:
and in accordance with section 414C(11) of the Business model and strategy Strategic report 18
– So far as the Director is aware, there is no
Companies Act 2006, this Directors’ report
relevant audit information of which the Cautionary statement regarding forward- Additional information 245
incorporates by reference the following sections Company’s auditor is unaware; and looking information
of the Annual Report:
– The Director has taken all the steps that he/she Corporate governance report Corporate governance report 52 to 123
– Strategic report; ought to have taken as a Director in order to
– Corporate governance report; make himself/herself aware of any relevant Directors and their interests Corporate governance report, 56 to 58, 90
– Group information, including Articles of audit information and to establish that the Directors’ remuneration report to 116
Association and material contracts; Company’s auditor is aware of that information. Directors’ indemnities and insurance Corporate governance report 62
– Financial statements; and
– Additional information. This confirmation is given and should be Dividends/Dividend policy Strategic report, Financial statements – 28 and 157
interpreted in accordance with the provisions Note 9
The Strategic report and the Directors’ report of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
together constitute the management report as Events after the reporting period Financial statements – Note 34 211
For and on behalf of the Board
required under Rule 4.1.8R of the Disclosure Financial instruments and financial Financial statements – Notes 26 and 27 180 to 196
Guidance and Transparency Rules. risk management
Other information relevant to the Directors’ Future developments Strategic report 1 to 51
report, and which is incorporated by reference
GHG emissions/SECR disclosures Strategic report 36 to 39
into this report, can be found by referencing Ken Mur phy
the table to the right. Group Chief Executive Going concern and viability statement Strategic report 50 and 51
9 April 2025
Research and development Strategic report 1 to 51
Section 172 statement Corporate governance report 70
Share buybacks Strategic report, Financial statements – 22, 205 and
Note 30, Additional information 243
Share capital and control of the Company Financial statements – Note 30 205
and significant agreements
Share forfeiture Strategic report, Sustainability Committee 22, 79
report, Financial statements – Note 30 and 205
Stakeholder engagement Corporate governance report 20 to 22
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 240 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 238.
Directors’ report continued
Information required to be disclosed under the UK Listing Rules can be found on the following pages: Compliance with the Groceries In the GCA’s annual supplier survey for 2024,
(Supply Chain Practices) Market 95.8% of our suppliers recognised that we
UK Listing Rule 6.6.1R Pages Investigation Order 2009 and the comply ‘consistently well’ or ‘mostly well’ with
the Code.
Statement of capitalised interest 152 to 155 Groceries Supply Code of Practice
In our own Supplier Viewpoint survey, conducted
(the Code)
Allotment for cash of equity securities 150 to 152 in January 2025, the results continue to reflect
The Code regulates aspects of the commercial
Waiver of dividends 157 and 239 the progress we have made with our supplier
relationship between 14 designated grocery
relationships. The total Group score for suppliers
UK Listing Rule 6.6.6(8) Pages retailers in the UK and their suppliers of grocery rating their satisfaction with Tesco as either
products. The aim of the Code is to establish and
‘extremely satisfied’ or ‘very satisfied’ exceeded
Climate-related financial disclosures consistent with TCFD 36 to 39 embed the overarching principles of fairness and
our targets and was the highest score to date at
UK Listing Rule 6.6.6(9) and (10) Pages lawfulness within retailer-supplier relationships. 88.2%. Our UK satisfaction score was 89.8% and
Specific supplier protections under the Code
up 3% versus last year’s score of 86.9%. Among
Diversity disclosures 23 and 75 include the obligation for agreements to be in
topics relevant to the Code, our strongest UK
writing and copies retained; reasonable notice
score in Viewpoint continues to be ‘Tesco pays
to be given of changes to the supply chain or
Articles of Association Appointment and retirement promptly (within policy terms)’ at 94%. 89.4% of
reduction in the volume of purchases; and a
The Company’s Articles of Association may only of Directors suppliers agreed that ‘Tesco treats me fairly’,
number of provisions relating to payments to
be amended by special resolution at a general The appointment and retirement of Directors suppliers, including obligations for retailers to which was an increase on the year.
meeting of the shareholders. The Directors may is governed by the Company’s Articles of pay suppliers in full and without delay. Also, in the 2024 independent, industry-wide
exercise all the powers of the Company subject Association, the UK Corporate Governance Advantage survey of retailers, we were pleased
to the Articles of Association, relevant law and Code 2018, the Companies Act 2006 and other Retailer compliance with the Code is overseen to be ranked first for overall performance for
any directions that may be given by the Company related legislation. In the interests of good by the Groceries Code Adjudicator (GCA). In the the ninth year running.
at general meetings by shareholder resolution. governance, all Directors will retire and those last year, we have actively engaged with the GCA
and were pleased to introduce the GCA to both During the preceding financial year, we provided
wishing to serve again will submit themselves
Anti-bribery matters Matthew Barnes and Karen Whitworth. We also mandatory annual refresher training for all
for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
We have a zero-tolerance approach to bribery. hosted the GCA’s team at our Dagenham colleagues involved in buying groceries across
Our anti-bribery programme operates across Chris Kennedy will stand for election as Director distribution centre. We received positive our business. This included not only the buying
the Group. The programme is built around a at this year’s AGM, following his appointment to feedback from the GCA on both the meetings teams but also a wider set of colleagues,
clear understanding of how and where bribery the Board on 20 February 2025. Alison Platt, with Matthew and Karen and on the distribution including those working in our quality and supply
risks affect our business and comprises of key having been appointed to the Board for nine centre site visit. chain divisions. In total, 1,506 colleagues
controls such as: policies (anti-bribery, gifts years, will step down from the Board at the completed the GSCOP annual refresher training,
During the reporting year, we have continued to
and entertainment, conflicts of interest and conclusion of the AGM, and will therefore not with the majority being trained via role-based
enhance our Code compliance programme.
charitable donations); procedures (such as be seeking re-election. microlearning scenarios. 89% of colleagues said
We have provided clear and regular guidance,
that they found microlearning a better way to
conducting due diligence on suppliers, in For additional information concerning the communications and training sessions that
learn and retain training than a single, longer
particular those who will engage public officials Directors who served during the year and incorporated feedback from suppliers and the
training module. In addition to refresher training,
on our behalf); training colleagues on bribery changes to the composition of the Board, GCA. This year, we held mandatory masterclasses
235 new starters across our business completed
risks every year and ongoing assurance see pages 54 to 59. with our buyers on delisting, and our request for
new starter GSCOP training. In addition to
programmes to test that the controls are
cost price changes (RFCPC) process. As usual, we
computer-based training, we have also provided
functioning effectively. Bribery risk management
included various GSCOP scenarios in our annual
numerous face-to-face training sessions on
is discussed at senior leadership groups in each
microlearning programme, ensuring that the
GSCOP, whether on a standalone basis or
business unit, including at the executive level,
Code (and specifically, the GCA’s 7 Golden Rules)
combined with another element of legal or
and also with the Audit Committee.
are upheld.
regulatory education.
During the preceding year, two Code-related
issues were raised by suppliers. In one of those
two matters, the supplier was seeking guidance
regarding an emergency product withdrawal.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 241 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 239.
Directors’ report continued
In the other matter, the supplier was seeking Dividend policy Employment policies In line with our efforts to create a flexible and
guidance about our annual payment terms collaborative work environment, we have
It is the Board’s intention to continue to pay Following negotiations with USDAW/SATA,
review. Both matters were resolved during updated our office ways of working. We continue
a progressive dividend by aiming to grow the we have made significant enhancements to
the reporting period. to embrace a hybrid approach, with full-time
dividend per share each year, broadly targeting our Company Sick Pay (CSP). Effective from
colleagues requested to spend a minimum of
Furthermore, three matters were reported as a 50% payout of adjusted earnings per share. 15 September 2024, we increased the CSP to a
three days coming together to work with others.
ongoing from the FY 23/24 reporting period and maximum of 18 weeks for hourly paid colleagues
Dividends For part-time colleagues, the expectation is the
were carried over. Two matters have since been with 17 years’ service or more. Additionally, from
resolved and one remains ongoing. The matter The profit for the financial year, after taxation, 30 March 2025, Office and Distribution salaried equivalent number of days to meet this principle.
that remains ongoing had escalated to a formal amounts to £1,604m (2023/24: £1,764m) from colleagues will transfer onto this enhanced This balance allows for effective collaboration
dispute (as defined by Part 5, Article 11 of the continuing operations. The Directors have scheme, increasing their CSP from six weeks full and teamwork while also providing the flexibility
GSCOP Order). This matter has since been declared dividends as follows: and three weeks half pay to a service-based to work independently from elsewhere.
resolved commercially, with the commercial entitlement with a maximum of 18 weeks at These updates reflect our ongoing commitment
agreement being in place since June 2024. Ordinary shares £m 17 years’ service or more. This change ensures to supporting our colleagues and fostering a
Despite this, the supplier wishes to keep Paid interim dividend of 4.25 pence that all colleagues receive equitable support positive, inclusive workplace culture. We believe
the matter recorded as open whilst the per share(a) (2023/24: 3.85 pence during times of illness. these changes will help us continue to attract
commercial agreement is in place. As a result, per share) 289 and retain top talent, ensuring Tesco remains a
In October 2024, we launched our new Bullying,
at the end of FY 24/25 reporting period, there is Proposed final dividend of 9.45 pence great place to work. By prioritising the wellbeing
Harassment and Discrimination policy to support
one ongoing matter. per share(b) (2023/24: 8.25 pence and development of our colleagues, we are
colleagues across the Group. This policy is a
per share) 637 building a stronger, more resilient organisation
Directors and their interests Total dividend of 13.70 pence per share crucial part of ensuring that our workplace is that is well-equipped to meet the challenges
inclusive, safe, and a place where everyone
The biographical details of the current serving for 2024/25 (2023/24: 12.10 pence of the future. In 2025, Tesco was recognised
is treated fairly and with respect. Bullying,
Directors are set out on pages 56 to 58. per share) 926 by the British Quality Foundation for its
harassment and discrimination have no place in
The interests of Directors, and their immediate comprehensive approach to health and
our business – we do not tolerate it in any form.
families, who served during the year, in the (a) Excludes £2m dividends waived (2023/24: £2m). wellbeing, including mental health support,
shares of Tesco PLC along with details of (b) S fi u n b a j l e o c r t d t in o a s r h y a d re iv h id o e ld n e d r w a i p ll p b r e o v p a a l i d a t o t n h e 2 7 2 J 0 u 2 n 5 e A 2 G 0 M 2 , 5 t t h o e all We are committed to addressing it when it physical wellness programmes and partnerships
Executive Directors’ share options, are shareholders on the register of members at the close of occurs and continuously learning and adapting with leading health charities.
contained in the Directors’ remuneration report business on 16 May 2025. to foster a culture we can be proud of. To help
Our policies demonstrate our commitment to
set out on pages 90 to 116. At no time during the Certain nominee companies representing our everyone understand their role in this, we have
providing equal opportunities to all colleagues,
year did any of the Directors have a material employee benefit trusts hold shares in the been rolling out an e-Learning programme
irrespective of age, disability (including colleagues
interest in any significant contract with the Company in connection with the operation of across the Group. Leaders in the UK have
who may have become disabled during service),
Company or any of its subsidiaries. the Company’s share plans. Evergreen dividend recently participated in Leading by Example
gender reassignment, marriage and civil
waivers remain in place on shares held by these training, and now it’s time for WL1-2 colleagues
Directors’ indemnities and insurance companies that have not been allocated in the office to complete their compulsory partnership, pregnancy or maternity, race,
religion or belief and sex or sexual orientation.
A qualifying third-party indemnity provision, as to employees. anti-harassment e-Learning.
defined in section 234 of the Companies Act
We have enhanced our paternity pay so that all
2006, is in force to the extent permitted by law For more information on dividends, weeks are paid at the higher of contractual pay
for the benefit of each of the Directors and see page 28 and Note 9 on page 157. or average earnings over the previous 52 weeks.
the Group Company Secretary (who is also a
In addition to this, we increased our paternity
Director of certain subsidiaries of the Company)
leave by a further two weeks, fathers now get
in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of
six weeks. Our maternity pay has been improved
their office.
from 14 weeks full and 14 weeks half pay to
26 weeks full pay, followed by up to 13 weeks
For further information, see page 62. Statutory Maternity Pay (SMP).
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 242 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 240.
Directors’ report continued
Going concern, longer term Political donations The Company is seeking to renew this authority Streamlined energy and carbon
prospects and viability statement The Group did not make any political donations at the forthcoming AGM, within the limits set out reporting (SECR) disclosures
in the notice of that meeting.
The Directors consider that the Group and the or incur any political expenditure during the year A breakdown of our GHG emissions in
Company have adequate resources to remain in 2024/25 (2023/24: £nil). The Company was authorised by shareholders at accordance with our regulatory obligation to
operation for the foreseeable future and have the 2024 AGM to replace the existing authority report GHG emissions pursuant to section 7 of
Share buyback programme
therefore continued to adopt the going concern (as granted by shareholders at the AGM held on the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and
basis in preparing the financial statements. On 10 April 2024, the Company committed to 16 June 2023) to purchase its own shares in the Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013 and the
The UK Corporate Governance Code (available buying back an additional £1bn worth of shares market up to a maximum of approximately Companies (Directors’ Report), and Limited
at the FRC website www.frc.org.uk) requires the by April 2025, of which £250m was funded by a 10% of its issued share capital. The Company Liability Partnerships (Energy and Carbon
Directors to assess and report on the prospects one-off special dividend received from Tesco is seeking to renew this authority at the Report) Regulations 2018 can be found on
of the Group over a longer period. Bank. This tranche completed in February 2025. forthcoming AGM, within the limits set out in page 39. We continue to implement initiatives
The Company intends to buy back a further the notice of that meeting. to drive energy efficiency across our operations
Our longer term viability statement is set £1.45bn by no later than April 2026, of which in support of our net zero ambitions.
Shares held by the Company’s Share Incentive
out on pages 50 and 51. £700m will be funded by the proceeds of the
sale of Tesco Bank during the financial year. Plan (SIP) Trust, International Employee Benefit Examples include:
Trust, Employees’ Share Scheme Trust and
This will be carried out by the Company using – Addressing emissions from heating, ventilation
Modern Slavery Act Booker Group 2010 Employee Benefit Trust rank
the authority to purchase its own shares as and air conditioning (HVAC) by trialling low
As per section 54(1) of the Modern Slavery Act approved by shareholders. The sole purpose of pari passu with the shares in issue and have no carbon alternatives to gas boilers;
2015, our modern slavery statement is reviewed the share buyback programme is to reduce the special rights. Voting rights and rights of – Improving refrigeration efficiency and reducing
and approved by the Board on an annual basis Company’s share capital. acceptance of any offer relating to the shares refrigerant emissions in our stores and
and published on our Group website. For further details on the share buyback h m e a ld y t in a k t e h e a s c e c o tr u u n s t t o s f r e an st y s r w ec it o h m th m e e t n r d u a st t e io e n s , f r w o h m o distribution centres;
The statement covers the activities of Tesco PLC programme, see pages 22, 243 and the Company. The trustees of the SIP Trust may – Switching from diesel to electric vans in our
and certain UK subsidiaries. It details policies, Note 30 on page 205. vote in respect of shares held in the SIP Trust, home delivery fleet;
processes and actions we have taken to ensure but only as instructed by participants in the SIP – Addressing transport emissions associated
that slavery and human trafficking are not taking Share capital and control of the in respect of their free shares, partnership with our distribution fleet, trialling fuel
place in our supply chains or any part of our Company and significant agreements shares and dividend shares. The trustees will alternatives while working directly with
b s su l u a p s v i p e n l r e y y s , c s b h . o a T t i e n h s s c w , o a it s i h s w i n d e e o ll d u a i r c s a o t t w h e e n d i o s to s p u e t e a ra c o t k f io l i f n o n g s r c m a e n o d d d ern D ch e a ta n i g ls e o s f d t u h r e in C g o th m e p y a e n a y r ’s i n s h th ar e e i s c s a u p e it d a s l, h in ar c e lu ding n th o e t S o I t P h T e r r u w s i t s . e vote in respect of shares held in – m l I o ns n a t g n a - u l t l f i e n a r c g m t e u l s r e o e c l r u t s r t i o i c o n n h e s o v o f e o k n r u d m p e o p c r o a e r in b s t u o s s n f t i o s a r a in t o a io u b n r l e ; a nd
labour more broadly. Modern slavery is one capital and details of the rights attaching to the The Company is not party to any significant refrigerated trucks and low emission
of our four key human rights strategic priority Company’s Ordinary shares are set out in agreements that would take effect, alter or refrigeration units powered by electricity.
areas, in which we work to bring about Note 30 on page 205. No shareholder holds terminate following a change of control of the
change through our Improve, Transform securities carrying special rights with regards to Company. The Company does not have For further information,
and Advocate model. control of the Company. There are no agreements with any Director or officer that see pages 36 to 39.
restrictions on voting rights or the transfer of would provide compensation for loss of office or
Our modern slavery statement can be securities in the Company. The Company is not employment resulting from a takeover, except For and on behalf of the Board
viewed at www.tescoplc.com. aware of any agreements between holders of that provisions of the Company’s share plans
securities that result in such restrictions. may cause options and awards granted under
The Company was authorised by shareholders at such plans to vest on a takeover.
the 2024 AGM to replace the existing authority
Share forfeiture
(as granted by shareholders at the AGM held on Ken Mur phy
16 June 2023) for Directors to allot new shares The Group has a share forfeiture programme Director
that represent not more than one third of the which it undertakes every two years, following 9 April 2025
issued share capital of the Company. It was also the completion of a shareholder tracing and
given the authority to allot relevant securities in notification exercise. The Group will undertake
connection with a rights issue up to a further a new share forfeiture programme in FY 25/26.
one third of the issued share capital as at
For further information, see pages 22, 79
1 May 2024. No shares were allotted under
and Note 30 on page 205.
that authority during the financial year.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 243 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 241.
Non-financial and sustainability information statement
NFSIS.
Reporting Relevant policies and Where to find more information Page
requirement documents that and outcomes
govern our approach
Social matters – Customer Group whistleblowing policy 65
– Product safety and
Sustainability Committee report 76
food integrity
– Responsible sourcing Group charitable donations policy 240
The table below constitutes the Company’s non-financial and sustainability information statement
– People
as required by sections 414CA and 414CB of the Companies Act 2006. In addition, our website – Our tax principles Groceries Supply Code of Practice (GSCOP) 238
www.tescoplc.com contains a wide range of non-financial information, including actions we take to – Responsible retailing of Details of our sustainability strategy together
manage our environmental and social impact and look after our colleagues. The due diligence carried alcohol, tobacco and with ESG performance can be found in our
out for each policy is contained within each respective policy’s documentation. Policies are available other age-restricted latest Sustainability Report at
on our website. products www.tescoplc.com
Respect for – Responsible sourcing Health and safety policy 44
Reporting Relevant policies and Where to find more information Page
requirement documents that and outcomes human rights Group whistleblowing policy 65
govern our approach
Sustainability Committee report 76
Environmental – Group environment What we stand for 10
matters policy CEO review 11 Human rights policy 44
– Sustainability Details of our modern slavery statement
UK market context 14
policies on key can be found on our website at
risk commodities KPIs 19 www.tescoplc.com
including soy, palm oil Planet 32
and seafood Anti- – Code of Business Principal risks and uncertainties 40
Principal risks and uncertainties 40
corruption and Conduct
Corporate governance report: purpose 65
Nature and TCFD 34 anti-bribery – GSCOP
and culture
Sustainability Committee report 76 – Group anti-bribery
policy Directors’ report: political donations, 238
Audit Committee report: 81
– Group fraud policy anti-bribery matters, modern and
environmental disclosures
– Group gift and slavery statement 240
Directors’ report (SECR) 237 entertainment policy
Details of our sustainability strategy together – Tesco’s political
with ESG performance can be found in our latest donations policy
Sustainability Report at www.tescoplc.com – Cyber security
– Data privacy
Colleagues – Code of Business What we stand for 10
Conduct KPIs 19 How we – Schedule of matters Principal risks and uncertainties 40
– H po e l a ic lt y h and safety Principal risks and uncertainties 40 manage risk – r A e u s d e it r v C e o d m fo m r it t t h e e e B oard TCFD: risks and opportunities 48
– Bullying and Corporate governance report: 65 terms of reference Governance framework 61
harassment policy purpose and culture
– Everyone’s welcome Board activity 67 Audit Committee report 80
policy
Colleagues 69 Business model – Strategic drivers Our business model 18
– Group whistleblowing
policy Stakeholder engagement 20 – Performance
framework
– Colleague engagement Nominations and Governance Committee 75
– Schedule of matters
– Conflicts of interest report: diversity, equity and inclusion
reserved for the Board
policy Directors’ remuneration report 90
Directors’ report disclosures: 239 Non- KPIs 19
employment policies financial key TCFD 36
performance
Nominations and Governance Committee 73
indicators
report: conflicts of interest
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 244 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 242.
Additional information for shareholders
Additional information
for shareholders.
Managing your shares and shareholder communication Electronic communications
The Company’s share register is maintained by our registrar, Equiniti. Shareholders can manage their holdings online or We encourage our shareholders to take advantage of electronic
elect to receive shareholder documentation in electronic form by setting up a Shareview portfolio. communications. By signing up to receive electronic communications, you
will be helping to reduce print, paper and postage costs and the associated
environmental impact.
Go Online. Go Paperless. It’s Simple.
Tesco Share Account
The Tesco Share Account (TSA) is a free service available to Tesco
shareholders that allows you to hold your Tesco shares electronically. The
TSA is a sponsored nominee service operated for Tesco by Equiniti Financial
It only takes a few minutes to register for a Shareview portfolio using your 11 digit Shareholder Reference Number. Services Limited, authorised and regulated by the FCA. Holding your shares
You can either: electronically removes the need to hold paper share certificates, making
dealing quicker and more secure. When you join the TSA, you remain the
beneficial owner of your shares and continue to have the right to receive
Register at www.shareview.co.uk/info/register
shareholder communications, vote at general meetings and to receive any
dividends paid on your shares.
Share dealing service
Elect to receive shareholder Equiniti offers shareholder services for dealing in Tesco PLC shares. Dealing
communications electronically and fees vary between brokers and you are recommended to check that you
transfer your shares into the TSA Scan the are being charged the most competitive rate. For further information
QR code: please visit www.shareview.co.uk/dealing. Equiniti can also assist
with shareholding and voting queries. Please contact Equiniti online at
Shareview www.shareview.co.uk (from here, you can securely email them with
Update your details online
your enquiry).
A free, easy and secure including change of address
service that enables you and your dividend elections Your dividend options
to manage your
You have the option to reinvest your dividend to purchase shares by joining
shareholding online.
the Tesco PLC Dividend Reinvestment Plan (the DRIP). For further
www.shareview.co.uk information please visit www.shareview.co.uk/info/drip (terms and
Submit your proxy
conditions apply).
voting instructions
Buy and sell shares easily
through your Shareview portfolio
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 245 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 243.
Additional information for shareholders continued
Annual General Meeting (AGM) American Depositary Receipts (ADRs)
The 2025 AGM will be held on Thursday, 12 June 2025 at 11.30am in the Heart building on our Welwyn The Company has a sponsored Level 1 ADR programme for which J.P. Morgan Chase Bank N.A. acts as
Garden City campus. The Notice of Meeting and the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025 are depositary. The ADRs are traded in the US, where one ADR represents three Ordinary shares. The ADR
available to view and download at www.tescoplc.com. programme confers the right to receive dividends in US Dollars.
If you wish to view the AGM proceedings online, you can watch via the live webcast which will be
ADR details
broadcast at 11.30am on the day of the AGM at www.tescoplc.com/AGM2025. The webcast is not
Symbol TSCDY
interactive, and it is not possible to vote or ask questions remotely.
CUSIP 881575401
Exchange OTC
Financial calendar 2025/26
Ratio 1:3
Effective date 1 April 1992
All enquiries relating to the ADR programme should be directed to:
22 February 2025
Feb 2025 Financial year end 2024/25 Shareowner Services
P.O. Box 64504
St. Paul, MN 55164-0504
Email: StockTransfer@equiniti.com
Website: www.adr.com
12 June 2025 Share buyback programme
Annual General Meeting and Q1 trading statement
Jun 2025 On 10 April 2024, the Company committed to buying back an additional £1bn worth of shares by
27 June 2025 April 2025, of which £250m was funded by a one-off special dividend received from Tesco Bank.
Proposed payment date for final dividend This tranche completed in February 2025. The Company intends to buy back a further £1.45bn by no
later than April 2026, of which £700m will be funded by the proceeds of the sale of Tesco Bank during
the financial year. This will be carried out by the Company using the authority to purchase its own
shares as approved by shareholders. The sole purpose of the share buyback programme is to reduce
the Company’s share capital.
2 October 2025
Oct 2025 Interim results announcement For more information on the share buyback programme,
see page 22 and Note 30 on page 205.
8 January 2026
Jan 2026 Q3 and Christmas trading statement
28 February 2026
Feb 2026 Financial year end 2025/26
Please note that these dates are provisional and subject to change.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 246 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 244.
Additional information for shareholders continued
Major shareholders Shareholder security
Information provided to the Company by major shareholders pursuant to the FCA’s Disclosure In recent years, Tesco PLC has become aware that its shareholders (and holders of other Tesco
Guidance and Transparency Rules (DTR) are published via a Regulatory Information Service and are securities) have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters.
available on the Company’s website. As at 22 February 2025 and the date of this report, the Company These callers can be very persistent and extremely persuasive and often have professional websites
had received notification of the following interests in voting rights pursuant to Chapter 5 of the DTR: and telephone numbers to support their activities. These callers will sometimes imply connection to
Tesco and provide incorrect or misleading information. Shareholders are advised to exercise caution
% of voting rights(a) over any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
BlackRock, Inc. 6.64
(a) Percentages are shown as a percentage of the Company’s total voting rights as at the date the Company was notified of the Beware of share fraud
change in holding.
Share register analysis Spot the warning signs
As at 22 February 2025, the Company had 6,736,841,762 shares in issue (24 February 2024: Fraudsters will often:
7,038,930,440) and 195,332 registered holders of Ordinary shares (24 February 2024: 204,911).
Shareholdings are analysed below: 1.contact you 2.apply pressure 3.downplay the risks
out of the blue; to invest quickly; to your money;
Breakdown of shareholdings
Number of % of issued state that the offer is only
Range of shareholding holdings share capital 4.promise returns that sound 5.
available to you; or that you
1 – 500 130,667 0.22% too good to be true; and
cannot inform anyone else.
501 – 1,000 17,163 0.19%
1,001 – 5,000 32,637 1.14%
If you are suspicious, report it
Over 5,001 14,865 98.45%
Total 195,332 100.00%
You can report the firm or scam to the FCA or by visiting the
by contacting their Consumer Helpline on FCA’s website at
Breakdown of holders with over 5,000 shares
0800 111 6768 fca.org.uk/scamsmart
Number of % of issued
Range of shareholding holdings share capital
5,001 – 10,000 7,789 0.82% How to avoid investment scams
10,001 – 50,000 5,640 1.55%
50,001 – 100,000 366 0.37% 1. 2. 3.
100,001 – 500,000 484 1.80%
500,001 – 1,000,000 154 1.62% Reject unexpected offers: Check the FCA Warning List: Get impartial advice: Get
1,000,001 – 5,000,000 253 8.22% Scammers usually make Use the FCA Warning List to impartial advice before
unsolicited phone calls, but check the risks of a potential investing – do not use an
Over 5,000,001 179 84.07%
they can also contact you by investment opportunity – advisor from the firm that
Total 14,865 98.45%
email, post, word of mouth you can also search to see if contacted you.
or at a seminar. If you have the firm is known to be
Category of shareholders
been offered an investment operating without FCA
% of total opportunity out of the blue, authorisation.
Number of registered Number of % of issued it is likely to be a high-risk
holdings holders Ordinary shares share capital
investment or a scam.
Private 193,324 98.97% 361,934,941 5.37%
Institutional and corporate 2,008 1.03% 6,374,906,821 94.63%
If you have lost money in a scam, contact Action Fraud on
0300 123 2040 www.actionfraud.police.uk
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2025

--- PAGE 247 ---
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 245.
Additional information for shareholders continued
C ontact us.
Cautionary statement regarding
forward looking information
Where this Annual Report contains forward-
looking statements, these are based on
current expectations and assumptions, and
speak only as of the date they are made.
These statements should be treated with Registered office Registrars
caution due to the inherent risks, Tesco House Equiniti Limited
uncertainties and assumptions underlying Shire Park Aspect House
any such forward-looking information. Kestrel Way Spencer Road
Welwyn Garden City Lancing
The Group cautions investors that a number This report is printed on Arctic Volume paper
AL7 1GA West Sussex
of factors, including matters referred to in and board.
BN99 6DA
this document, could cause actual results Website: www.tescoplc.com The paper is Forest Stewardship Council® (FSC®)
t im o p d l i i f e fe d r i n m a a n t y e r f i o a r ll w y a fr r o d m -lo t o h k o in se g e st x a p t r e e m ss e e n d t . o r Investor Relations W Fro e m b h s e it r e e, : y w ou w c w an . s s e h c a u r re e ly v e ie m w ai . l c Eq o u . i u n k iti certified from well managed forests and other
Such factors include, but are not limited to, Investor Relations Department with your enquiry. controlled sources.
those discussed under principal risks and Tesco House Group Company Secretary The paper is Carbon Balanced with World Land
uncertainties on pages 40 to 47. Shire Park Trust, an international conservation charity,
Chris Taylor
Kestrel Way which offset carbon emissions through the
Forward-looking statements can be
Welwyn Garden City Corporate brokers purchase and preservation of high conservation
identified by the use of relevant terminology
AL7 1GA value land. Through protecting standing forests,
including the words: ‘may’, ‘will’, ‘seek’, ‘aim’, Barclays Bank PLC
under threat of clearance, carbon is locked in
‘anticipate’, ‘target’, ‘projected’, ‘expect’, Citigroup Global Markets Limited
that would otherwise be released. These
‘estimate’, ‘intend’, ‘plan’, ‘goal’, ‘believe’ or
Independent auditors protected forests are then able to continue
other words of similar meaning and include
absorbing carbon from the atmosphere,
all matters that are not historical facts. They Deloitte LLP
referred to as REDD (Reduced Emissions from
appear in a number of places throughout
Deforestation and forest Degradation).
this Annual Report and include statements
regarding the intentions, beliefs or current This is now recognised as one of the most
expectations of our officers, Directors and cost-effective and swiftest ways to arrest the
colleagues concerning, among other things, rise in atmospheric CO 2 and global warming
the Group’s results of operations, financial effects. Additional to the carbon benefits is
condition, liquidity, prospects, growth, the flora and fauna this land preserves,
strategies and the business. including a number of species identified at
risk of extinction on the IUCN Red List of
Neither the Group, nor any of its officers,
Threatened Species.
Directors or colleagues, provides any
representation, assurance or guarantee Printed in the UK by Pureprint Group,
that the occurrence of the events a CarbonNeutral® company with
expressed or implied in any forward-looking FSC® certification.
statements in this Annual Report will Photographer:
actually occur. Undue reliance should not Mike Abrahams
be placed on these forward-looking
statements. Other than in accordance with
our legal and regulatory obligations, the Designed and produced by Conran Design Group.
Group undertakes no obligation to publicly If you have finished with this Annual Report
update or revise any forward-looking and no longer wish to retain it, please pass
statement, whether as a result of new it on to other interested readers or dispose
information, future events or otherwise. of it in your recycled paper waste.

--- PAGE 248 ---
It’s not a little thing. Value.
It’s everything.
Quality.
Service.
Golden
Tesco PLC
Tesco House
Shire Park
Kestrel Way
Welwyn Garden City
AL7 1GA
www.tescoplc.com